+++
title = "1003 Pasuram 8.7.8"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

அறியேன் மற்றருள் என்னைஆளும் பிரானார்  
வெறிதே அருள்செய்வர் செய்வார்கட்கு உகந்து  
சிறியேனுடைச் சிந்தையுள் மூவுலகும் தன்  
நெறியா வயிற்றில்கொண்டு நின்றொழிந்தாரே.

aṟiyēṉ maṟṟaruḷ eṉṉaiāḷum pirāṉār  
veṟitē aruḷceyvar ceyvārkaṭku ukantu  
ciṟiyēṉuṭaic cintaiyuḷ mūvulakum taṉ  
neṟiyā vayiṟṟilkoṇṭu niṉṟoḻintārē.

**English translation of verse 8.7.8:**

I know of no other benefaction but the stay of the Lord.  
Within my frail heart, keeping in His stomach all the three worlds,  
Well *in tact*; unto those of His choice, He, who has me enthralled,  
Does His grace solely extend, out of His own accord.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The Āḻvār expatiates on the Lord’s sweet, spontaneous grace (nirhetuka kṛpā) inasmuch as the grace, with which He has now flooded him, is itself a matter of such voluntary grace. The Lord of the universe has shifted the venue of His vast governance to the heart-region of the Āḻvār. What else is this but the Lord’s spontaneous grace and is there at all any need to adduce any other example? In this song, the Āḻvār thus pin points the Lord’s spontaneous grace, extolling the Lord as one, who sheds His voluntary grace on those whom He singles out for such favours and has thus chosen to get Himself firmly lodged in the Āḻvār’s mind. While the Āḻvār looks upon himself, as the lowliest of the lowly, the Lord regards him as one far more precious than all the worlds put together.

\(ii\) In the hymns of the Āḻvār where the Lord’s grace is expounded there might appear to be mutual contradictions in some places to the superficial reader, but a critical and cogent study will remove such doubts. This position has been thrashed out in aphorisms 393 and 394 of “Śrīvacana Bhūṣaṇam”; the reader is invited to study either the original text or the English rendering thereof by the author of this work.


