+++
title = "1008 Introduction to Section 9.8"

+++
In the fifth decad of this centum (Māyak kūttā), the Āḻvār’s yearning was too deep for words. The Lord responded with even greater avidity and the two of them got wrapt up in mutual delight. The Āḻvār gave vent to his jubilation in the last decad, and even so, in the eighth song of that decad, he referred to himself as a frail being, with whom the great Lord of unlimited prowess has chosen to mingle freely and stay on. The Āḻvār’s frightful sense of his own pettiness, in contra-distinction to the Lord’s grandeur of limitless dimensions, which was rearing up its head now and then, was studiously kept under effective check by the Lord who was apprehensive of the Āḻvār’s tendency to shrink back from Him on this score. The Lord, who noticed, with great concern, a revival of this trend in the Āḻvār, wished to cut it out, there and then, root and branch. The Lord wanted to quell the Āḻvār’s notion of the soul’s pettiness by revealing to him its real grandeur. But then, the soul, like unto a mere glow-worm, may not hold out any appeal to the Āḻvār, profoundly struck by the Lord’s exquisite charm. The other alternative for the Lord was to exhibit the grandeur of the Āḻvār‘s soul along with that of His own. The Lord accordingly revealed to the Āḻvār, His charm first and then the grandeur of the Āḻvār’s soul, in its relation of liegeship to the Sovereign Lord, as delectable unto Him as His ornaments. And so, in this decad, the Āḻvār dwells on the intrinsic beauty of the soul, as the exclusive vassal of the Lord, as revealed by the Lord Himself.


