+++
title = "1009 Pasuram 8.8.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கண்கள் சிவந்து பெரியவாய் வாயும் சிவந்து கனிந்து உள்ளே  
வெண்பல் இலகு சுடர்இலகு விலகு மகர குண்டலத்தன்  
கொண்டல் வண்ணன் சுடர்முடியன் நான்கு தோளன் குனிசார்ங்கன்  
ஒண் சங்கதை வாள்ஆழியான் ஒருவன் அடியேன் உள்ளானே. (2)

kaṇkaḷ civantu periyavāy vāyum civantu kaṉintu uḷḷē  
veṇpal ilaku cuṭarilaku vilaku [makara](/definition/makara#vaishnavism "show makara definitions") kuṇṭalattaṉ  
koṇṭal vaṇṇaṉ cuṭarmuṭiyaṉ nāṉku tōḷaṉ kuṉicārṅkaṉ  
oṇ caṅkatai vāḷāḻiyāṉ oruvaṉ aṭiyēṉ uḷḷāṉē. (2)

**English translation of verse 8.8.1:**

The [cloud](/definition/cloud#history "show cloud definitions")-hued Lord of grandeur unique, with eyes, red and wide,  
Reddened lips, teeth sparkling white, imposing [pearl](/definition/pearl#history "show pearl definitions") pendants,  
Beaming crown, shoulders four, curvate bow, lovely conch, the sword,  
The mace and discus majestic, stands, inside this vassal, resplendent.

**Notes:**

\(i\) In this song, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") goes into raptures on beholding the Lord’s exquisite Form displaying the rare charm acquired by Him on His union with the Āḻvār. In VIII-5-2, the Āḻvār was with eyes fully dried and lips parched up, when he beseeched the Lord to oblige him with His sweet presence. The Lord too had undergone such modifications then and He was also off colour and lack-lustre like the Āḻvār! It was only when His union with the Āḻvār materialised, that He regained His original complexion and composure, heightened by the extra lustre imparted by the exuberance of His joy in the coveted [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions") of the Āḻvār. The Āḻvār, who took due note of this marvellous reciprocity on the part of the Lord, got choked down to a trance state, as he meditated on the Lord’s amazing simplicity and boundless love for him. This was the third and the last spell of suspended animation, passed through by the Āḻvār, who was struck dumb and insensate every time he contemplated the Supreme Lord’s extreme simplicity in bringing Himself down on a par with His devotees and some times, even relegating Himself lower still. Every time, this trance-state lasted six months, as seen from aphorism 58 of ‘[Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions") Hṛdayam’ and Śrī Maṇavāḷa Māmuṉi‘s glossary thereon; the two earlier stages pertain to I-3-1 and V-10-1.

\(ii\) The description of the Lord and His mighty [weapons](/definition/weapon#history "show weapons definitions"), (which in the eyes of the Āḻvār loom, more as lovely [jewels](/definition/jewel#history "show jewels definitions") [decorating](/definition/decorating#history "show decorating definitions") the Lord) is that of the rejuvenated Lord, on His getting lodged in the Āḻvār’s heart. This could also fit in with [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") 2 of Śrīman [Nāthamuni](/definition/nathamuni#vaishnavism "show Nāthamuni definitions")’s [śloka](/definition/sloka#vaishnavism "show śloka definitions"), ‘Yadgosahaśraṃ apahanti..........’, in adoration of Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions"), as per the former’s yogic comprehension. There it has been said that the [Bakula](/definition/bakula#history "show Bakula definitions")-flowered (Narcissus) Nammāḻvār is the Sun, beaming through the thousand rays of [Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions"), where Lord Śrīman [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions") resides, wielding His discus and conch and surrounded by His entire retinue, the region adored by the Brahmins learned in the Śrutis, the cynosure of the Celestials. (See also Introduction).

\(iii\) What the Āḻvār envisaged within him was like unto what meets one’s eyes when a box full of sparkling diamonds is thrown open.


