+++
title = "1010 Pasuram 8.8.2"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

அடியேன்உள்ளான் உடல்உள்ளான் அண்டத்துஅகத்தான் புறத்துள்ளான்  
படியேஇது என்றுஉரைக்கலாம் படியன் அல்லன் பரம்பரன்  
கடிசேர் நாற்றத்துள்ஆலை இன்பத் துன்பக் கழிநேர்மை  
ஒடியா இன்பப் பெருமையோன் உணர்வில்உம்பர் ஒருவனே

aṭiyēṉuḷḷāṉ uṭaluḷḷāṉ aṇṭattuakattāṉ puṟattuḷḷāṉ  
paṭiyēitu eṉṟuuraikkalām paṭiyaṉ allaṉ paramparaṉ  
kaṭicēr nāṟṟattuḷālai iṉpat tuṉpak kaḻinērmai  
oṭiyā iṉpap perumaiyōṉ uṇarvilumpar oruvaṉē

**English translation of verse 8.8.2:**

The One, who does within me (His vassal) dwell,  
Stays in this body, as well, being the Inner Soul  
Of the worlds, one and all and the regions beyond, as well;  
Of fragrance unique and sweet like flawless honey is His bliss perennial,  
Higher than the highest, none can His modes fathom,  
He is the One, of knowledge supreme.

**Notes:**

The Āḻvār has high-lighted, in this song, ‘śeṣatva’ or exclusive service to the Lord, as the essential attirubute of the individual soul. Instead of saying that the Lord, Who pervades all things all over the worlds and the regions beyond (the external multiplicity of layers), stays within him and his body, he says, the Lord stays in this vassal (aṭiyēṉ) and the body (uṭal) as well. *The Āḻvār has thus identified his soul, as the servant (vassal) of the Lord, thereby bringing to the fore, the ‘Śeṣatva’ (servanthood) attribute of the Soul*. Although the word ‘aṭiyēṉ’ (self) occurs in various other songs of the Āḻvār and even in the very first song of his first hymnal (Tiruviruttam), it has connoted, in all other places, the embodied soul and not the soul, as such.

Of the two principal attributes of the Individual soul, namely, ‘Jñātṛtva’ (bliss of wisdom or knowledge) and ‘śeṣatva’ (service to the Lord), why should the latter alone be taken as the essential attribute of the soul, in preference to the former? This has been examined at great length in aphorism 73 of ‘Śrīvacana Bhūṣaṇam’. It is reproduced below.

If ‘Jñātṛtva’ is held to be the sole attribute of the soṇṭ, this is also the attribute of the Lord and hence it is necessary to bring out the distinguishing feature of the individual soul. If, on the other hand, ‘Śeṣatva’ is held to be the sole attribute of the soul, this attribute is applicable to ‘Acit’ (non-sentient matter), as well, and it cannot, therefore, be the distinguishing feature of the soul. And so, both the attributes of the ‘Jīva’ (soul), namely, ‘Jñātṛtva’ and ‘Śeṣatva’ are attracted. We now come back to the question, as to which of these two should be considered the essential attribute of the soul. Could it be ‘Jñātṛtva’, which stamps out the soul from the unintelligent matter or ‘Śeṣatva’ which differentiates ‘Jīva’ from ‘Īśvara’ (Lord)? ‘Śeṣatva’ or service unto the Lord, being that which sustains the individual soul and makes it thrive, this attribute naturally comes to the fore, relegating the other attribute to the back-ground. The assumption of ‘Jñātṛtva as the essential attribute of the ‘Jīva’, would place it on a par with the Lord and this smacks of ‘Advaita’ or non-difference between the two entities. This is effectively quelled by the ‘Śeṣatva’ aspect of the ‘Jīva’. When this topic came up for discussion in Saint Rāmānuja’s holy court of religious discussions, the Saint, although perfectly informed in the maṭṭer, wished to get it expounded by his Guru, Tirukkōṭṭiyūr Nampi. Kūrattāḻvāṉ, the illustrious disciple of Saint Rāmānuja, was sent, all the way to Tirukkottiyur to learn from Nampi the truth, in this regard. Even after waiting on Nampi for six long months, Āḻvān could not obtain from the great-preceptor, any hint. But, when he sought Nampi’s permist sion to return to Srīrangam, the latter condescended, at long last, to pin-point the truth admirably, by pointing out: “Son, don’t you know that Saint Nammāḻvār, inspired and endowed by the Lord Himself with perfect knowledge, has said ‘*Atiyēṉ uḷḷāṉ*’ (*the opening words of this song*)?” Grasping at once the implication of this, Āḻvāṉ exclaimed with joy, “Good Sire, I am indeed blessed, I have known the truth” and returned to his Master at Srirangam. The exact import of these two words has already been set out in sub para above.


