+++
title = "1013 Pasuram 8.8.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நின்ற ஒன்றை உணர்ந்தேனுக்கு அதனுள் நேர்மை அதுஇதுஎன்று  
ஒன்றும் ஒருவர்க்கு உணரலாகாது உணர்ந்தும் மேலும் காண்புஅரிது  
சென்று சென்று பரம்பரமாய் யாதும்இன்றித் தேய்ந்துஅற்று  
நன்று தீதுஎன்று அறிவரிதாய் நன்றாய் ஞானம் கடந்ததே

niṉṟa oṉṟai uṇarntēṉukku ataṉuḷ nērmai atuitueṉṟu  
oṉṟum oruvarkku uṇaralākātu uṇarntum mēlum kāṇpuaritu  
ceṉṟu ceṉṟu paramparamāy yātumiṉṟit tēyntuaṟṟu  
naṉṟu tītueṉṟu aṟivaritāy naṉṟāy ñāṉam kaṭantatē

**English translation of verse 8.8.5:**

The subtle beauty of the Soul, eternal and intelligent, the Lord’s attribute,  
None can comprehend, in terms concrete, as this or that  
And much less visualise;’tis indeed very much apart  
From matter and does its components, one by one, excel;  
One can’t with things material compare and tell,  
’Tis good or bad and yet He did reveal  
Unto me, in its true perspective, my soul.

**Notes:**

In the opening song of this hymnal (1-1-1), the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") acknowledged the fact that he had been graciously endowed. by the Lord with knowledge, full and complete. Knowledge of his soul, its characteristics, special features and interrelation with the Lord etc., would have doubtless been imparted to him then, as part of the vast range of that knowledge. The emphasis, however, rested on God-love (matinalam) and all that knowledge acquired by the Āḻvār got rooted in it. (Bhaktirūpāpanna [Jñāna](/definition/jnana#vaishnavism "show Jñāna definitions")). The Āḻvār did not, therefore, turn his attention to the [study](/definition/study#history "show study definitions") of his soul, as such, a mere firefly, compared with the splendour of the Supreme Lord. It has, however, become necessary now for the Lord to impress upon the Āḻvār the grandeur of his soul and its glorious impact on Him, in the particular context, explained in the preamble to this decad. The Lord has now condescended to exhibit the soul as His mode, that is, one related to Him, as the predicate is to the subject or attribute

is to substance. Even the wisest and the best informed individuals, with the most strenuous mental effort ([yoga](/definition/yoga#vaishnavism "show yoga definitions")) or psychic [meditation](/definition/meditation#history "show meditation definitions"), cannot perceive this wonderful entity, the soul ([Ātmā](/definition/atman#vaishnavism "show Ātmā definitions")) not comparable with the external objects, with form and content, discerned by the senses. The soul transcends the several vestures veiling it, which could be grouped as ‘body’ ([annamaya](/definition/annamaya#vaishnavism "show annamaya definitions")) or as the senses, ‘[prāṇa](/definition/prana#vaishnavism "show prāṇa definitions")’ or the vital spirit ([Prāṇamaya](/definition/pranamaya#vaishnavism "show Prāṇamaya definitions")) or ‘[manas](/definition/mana#vaishnavism "show manas definitions")’ ([manomaya](/definition/manomaya#vaishnavism "show manomaya definitions")), the mind, or ‘[buddhi](/definition/buddhi#vaishnavism "show buddhi definitions")’, the will. Not [falling](/definition/falling#history "show falling definitions") within the mischief of the modifications and corruptions to which all these are subject, the soul is very subtle and distinct from any of these, not cognisable as ‘good’ or ‘bad’, being outside the purview of sense-knowledge.

Neither by speech nor by any process of thought would it be possible to disclose the true [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") of the soul in its entirety, even by those who have made great advance in spiritual knowledge. c.f. what the Lord said to [Arjuna](/definition/arjuna#vaishnavism "show Arjuna definitions") in [Bhagavad Gītā](/definition/bhagavad-gita#vaishnavism "show Bhagavad Gītā definitions").—

> “To know, to see and to enter into the true nature of the soul is > difficult”.

The soul is thus, by itself, a unique entity (truth), characterised by its own special attributes of intelligence (jñāna) and bliss ([ānanda](/definition/ananda#vaishnavism "show ānanda definitions")).

As the illustrious [Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions") Empār would put it, in the preceding songs, the soul was referred to as an appendage to the Lord, His dependent, an attribute (viśeṣaṇa), the Lord being the substance (viśeṣya); in the four songs commencing from this one, the soul is dealt with as a singular entity, characterised by its own attributes of intelligence (jñāna) and bliss (ānanda).


