+++
title = "1017 Pasuram 8.8.9"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கூடிற்றாகில் நல்உறைப்பு கூடாமையைக் கூடினால்  
ஆடல் பறவை உயர்கொடி எம்மாயன் ஆவதது அதுவே  
வீடைப் பண்ணி ஒருபரிசே எதிர்வும் நிகழ்வும் கழிவுமாய்  
ஓடித் திரியும் யோகிகளும் உளரும்இல்லை அல்லரே.

kūṭiṟṟākil naluṟaippu kūṭāmaiyaik kūṭiṉāl  
āṭal paṟavai uyarkoṭi emmāyaṉ āvatatu atuvē  
vīṭaip [paṇṇi](/definition/paṇṇi#history "show paṇṇi definitions") oruparicē etirvum nikaḻvum kaḻivumāy  
ōṭit tiriyum yōkikaḷum uḷarumillai allarē.

**English translation of verse 8.8.9:**

It will be good, no [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), if there can be a blend  
Of the soul with the Super-Soul but it will be a notion blind,  
That the soul could itself become the Lord with the [flying](/definition/flying#history "show flying definitions") [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions")  
On His banner, oh, what a grotesque misfit indeed!  
Pity! there exist such perverts gross, at all times, who wallow  
In [family](/definition/family#history "show family definitions") ties, with all fanciful notions of the final goal.

**Notes:**

\(i\) [Meditation](/definition/meditation#history "show Meditation definitions") of the Lord during the last moments of one’s [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), emphasised by the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") in the preceding song, stresses incidentally the basic difference between the two entities, namely, the ‘[Jīva](/definition/jiva#vaishnavism "show Jīva definitions")’ (individual soul) and ‘[Paramātmā](/definition/paramatman#vaishnavism "show Paramātmā definitions")’ ([īśvara](/definition/ishvara#vaishnavism "show īśvara definitions"), the Supreme Lord). Unfortunately, there are perverts, extant in this world at all times, who propagate fanciful notions that the individual soul, rid of nescience, becomes ‘[Brahman](/definition/brahman#vaishnavism "show Brahman definitions")’ and thereafter, there is but a single entity, namely, ‘Brahman’, the other entity, the ‘Jīva’ having ceased to exist, as such. The Āḻvār now condemns such heresies.

\(ii\) If the impossible happens, that is, the incompatibles blending into one, as in the fanciful event of the individual soul and the Super-Soul (the Supreme Lord) blending into a single entity, the Āḻvār wonders what a grotesque and preposterous misfit it would turn out to be. The individual soul can then be the Master of [Garuḍa](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍa definitions"), the Eternal Hero and fly on him. But this cannot be, flying on Garuḍa being the sole prerogative of the Lord. It is indeed a pity that there have been in the past, there are at present and there will be in the future, persons expounding such heretical doctrines according to their individual fancies.


