+++
title = "1034 Introduction to Section 9.10"

+++
The subject’s exclusive dependence on the Supreme Lord was emphasised in the last decad. But then, dependence on the Lord could extend upto the Lord’s devotees as well by virtue of His unbounded love for them. This is like our wearing on our heads, the holy sandals of the Lord and [swallowing](/definition/swallowing#history "show swallowing definitions") the water obtained by giving them a sacramental bath. Did not Tirumaṅkai [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") declare in VIII-10-3 of his ‘Periya Tirumoḻi’ that, as a result of [learning](/definition/learning#history "show learning definitions") the eight-syllabled Tirumantra, he became a vassal of the devotees of the Lord, enshrined in Tirukkaṇṇapuram? Service unto the Lord’s devotees, the logical culmination of service to the Lord (which is implied in the word ‘[namaḥ](/definition/nama#vaishnavism "show namaḥ definitions")’, occurring in Tirumantra), is dealt with, in this decad. Actually, the end-song of the last decad has already set the pace for this decad. No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), the essential [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") of the soul, with special emphasis on servanthood (śeṣatva), as the Lord’s vassal, extending upto the Lord’s devotees, was set out, as far back as III-7 ‘Payilum Cuṭaroḷi’. We, however, see in this decad, the Āḻvār intensely longing for the fulfilment of such service, constituting the final goal. Being the liege unto the Lord’s favourite apostles and Saints on Earth is deemd to be a greater virtue, carrying to greater value than direct allegiance to the Lord Himself. In ‘Īṭu’, mention has been made of an anecdote, shedding copious light on this topic.

Ammuṉi Āḻvāṉ, a disciple of Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar was greeted, as follows, by the illustrious master, on the former’s return to [Srirangam](/definition/shrirangam#vaishnavism "show Srirangam definitions") from his sojourn in the [Hoysala](/definition/hoysala#history "show Hoysala definitions") country ([Mysore](/definition/mysore#history "show Mysore definitions")):

> “Son, we learn with great pleasure about the service you have > rendered, during your sojourn in those parts, to the Śrī > [Vaiṣṇavas](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇavas definitions"), > over there. In keeping with your spirit of service unto the Lord’s > devotees, you richly deserve a discourse from me on ‘Netumāṟkaṭimai’, > the decad of > [Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions"), > bearing on this very aspect.”

The Āḻvār ends up this decad by praying unto the Lord, that this passionate longing of his to serve the Lord’s devotees should endure till the end of time and it should also be instilled in all those associated with him, generation after generation.


