+++
title = "1045 Pasuram 8.10.11"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

நல்ல கோட்பாட்டு உலகங்கள் மூன்றினுள்ளும் தான்நிறைந்த  
அல்லிக் கமலக் கண்ணனை அம்தண் குருகூர்ச் சடகோபன்  
சொல்லப் பட்ட ஆயிரத்துள் இவையும் பத்தும் வல்லார்கள்  
நல்ல பதத்தால் மனைவாழ்வர் கொண்ட பெண்டீர் மக்களே. (2)

nalla kōṭpāṭṭu ulakaṅkaḷ mūṉṟiṉuḷḷum tāṉniṟainta  
allik kamalak kaṇṇaṉai amtaṇ kurukūrc caṭakōpaṉ  
collap paṭṭa āyirattuḷ ivaiyum pattum vallārkaḷ  
nalla patattāl maṉaivāḻvar koṇṭa peṇṭīr makkaḷē. (2)

**English translation of verse 8.10.11:**

Those that are well-versed in these songs ten,  
Out of the thousand uttered by Kurukūr Caṭakōpaṉ,  
Adoring the Lord with lotus eyes, large and lovely, who pervades  
All the three worlds with wholesome creeds,  
Will as householders flourish, with fervour great,  
To serve unremittingly the Lord’s devotees aright.

**Notes**

\(i\) The Āḻvār invests all the three worlds with his remarkable fervour to serve the Lord’s devotees, which has become,as it were, a creed with him. This is the wholesome creed with which he invests all the worlds also. As Śrī Nampiḷḷai puts it, the worlds settled down to orderly thinking, good conduct and behaviour, only after the Āḻvār sang this decad (Tiruvāymoḻi).

\(ii\) Far from getting vexed with the Āḻvār for his by-passing Him and getting into the domain of ‘Bhāgavata-śeṣatva’ (Service to His devotees), the Lord gazes at him in great wonderment, seeing that he pines for this creed of his to trickle down to his futur generations also. In the process, the Lord’s eyes get widened further still, making them even more attractive than before and inviting the Āḻvār to take due note of it and give expression thereto in this end-song.

\(iii\) The benefit accruing to the chanters of this decad, as set out in this end-song, sounds rather queer. To get consigned to the life of a house-holder would seem like getting into some thing the Āḻvār has been abhorring all along, and detests in the very next decad (IX-I). The point to be emphasised here is, however, the merit attaching to ‘Gṛhastāśrama’, life as a virtuous householder, ably supported by members having the common objective of serving the devout with unremitting zeal and sincerity, such as that of Kūrathāḻvāṉ, Aṉaṉtāḻvaṉ and other savants. It is only family life which does not conform to this ideal, that needs to be condemned and eschewed. In ‘Īṭu’ there is, as usual, a juicy anecdote to reinforce the wholesome aspect of family life. The great Ācārya, Śrī Rāmānuja, set out on a pilgrimage to ‘Aṉaṉtacayaṉam’ (Trivandrum in Kerala State), accompanied by a large number of disciples. On the way, they halted at the residence of Celva Nampi, an ardent devotee of remarkable excellence, (vide also the 11th stanza of Periyāḻvār’s Tiruppallāṇṭu) at Tirukkoṭṭiyūr. Although Nampi was out of station, at that time, his equally devoted wife lavishly entertained Śrī Rāmānuja and his huge entourage, overjoyed at the voluntary arrival of so many ‘Bhāgavatas’ (devotees), all at once, an act of grace galore on their part. The household granary which was full of paddy, recently harvested, was pounded into rice, *in toto*, with great jubilation and all that rice was consumed by the venerable guests. On Celva Nampi’s return home, he found the granary absolutely empty. Without the slightest disquietude, the perfect hostess, his wife was, she asssured Nampi that their granary in Heaven should indeed be full. Let it be noted that this is the kind of household that has been vouchsafed by the benign Āḻvār to the chanters of this decad.

Toṇṭaṉūr Nampi, Eccān and a few other great savarts are also said to have dedicated their lives to the service of the devout (Bhāgavatas).


