+++
title = "1046 Eighth Centum, in retrospect (Decad-wise Summary)"

+++
(8-1): In the concluding decad of the Seventh Centum, we saw how the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") was longing for the immense pleasure of [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") these hymns ([Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")) before the Divine Couple at Tiruvāraṉviḷai and rendering unto Them, other kinds of service, as well. But then, the project did not get off the ground and non-fulfilment of his cherished desire made the Āḻvār grow sceptical of the Lord’s *bona fides and attributes*, mainly. His traits of loving condescension and ability to concede the wishes of His devotees. And so, we see him giving expression to his misgivings, *in the opening decad of this Centum*. Apprehending, however, that the Āḻvār, sunk in despair, under the delusion that all His auspicious traits have dried up, might collapse altogether, the Lord set at naught his [doubts](/definition/doubt#history "show doubts definitions") by calling upon him to ponder over all that He had done for him, so far and assuring him of the due fulfilment of whatever He intended to do further for him. Thus consoled, the Āḻvār feels elevated from his erstwhile depression;

(8-2): Although the Āḻvār’s misgivings were cleared up, in the last decad, he was still not happy because of his inability to achieve the external perception of the Lord’s exquisite charm and physical contact, ṭonged for, by him. This gave rise to yet another [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions") in his mind, whether the Omniscient Lord still discovered in him traces of worldly desires and was, therefore, holding back. And so, the Āḻvār vindicates, *in the second decad*, his absolute [detachment](/definition/detachment#history "show detachment definitions") from all things ungodly, fiercely concentrating on the Lord, with no other thought crossing his mind. But then, he does this, not by means of a direct dialogue with the Lord but through argumentation between him, turned as Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī and the mates and elders;

(8-3): The Āḻvār could not lift his mind off the vision of the Lord’s exquisite Form of spectacular grandeur, conjured up by him in VIII-2-10 and, therefore, he voices forth *in the third decad* his apprehension of the safety of the Lord who moves about, in all His heavenly splendour, alone and unaided in this wicked world, peopled by the ungodly and the selfish. In the exuberance of his God-love, the Āḻvār loses perspective of the sequence of time; he would like to move about as the Lord’s camp-follower, carrying His bows and [arrows](/definition/arrow#history "show arrows definitions"); he is anxious that the turbulent child, who slept in the cradle under Yaśodhā’s nose and is now reposing, as a tender Babe, containing all the worlds in His stomach, on a tender fig-leaf, over the vast expanse of water, with none to attend on Him, should not fall asleep and slip down, into the deep waters; seeing the Lord, in His Iconic manifestation, in a reclining posture in quite a few pilgrim Centres, the Āḻvār thinks that He is relaxing Himself after His strenuous endeavours, such as spanning all the worlds, setting His tender feet over hill and dale, rubbles and brambles etc, and offers to massage His shoulders and feet. Above all, he feels vexed, with his loneliness, not finding yet another, in the whole world, sharing his anxiety in this regard. Towards the end of the decad, we find that the Lord has set the Āḻvār at ease, by convincing him that there was hardly any room for such [fears](/definition/fear#history "show fears definitions") and made him regain his composure, cured of his erstwhile fears;

(8-4): Apprehending that the Āḻvār might, in the exuberance of his God-love, once again entertain fears similar to those voiced forth by him, in the third decad, the Lord wanted to dispel the Āḻvār’s fears, with no chance whatever of their revival. He, therefore, revealed to the Āḻvār, His invulnerable abode in Tirucceṅkuṉṟūr Tirucciṟṟāṟu ([Kerala](/definition/kerala#history "show Kerala definitions") State), out of bounds to the ungodly, attended by the mighty band of three thousand [Vedic](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedic definitions") scholars, full of devotion. As a further precaution, the Lord also exhibited to the Alvār, His wondrous deeds, revealing His extra-ordinary prowess and valour. With his fears thus totally eradicated, the Āḻvār could whole-heartedly enjoy *in the fourth decad* the Lord’s exquisite beauty;

(8-5): The intense mental enjoyment of the Lord’s regal Form, enchanting, every inch, resorted to, by the Āḻvār, in the seventh song of the fourth decad, once again resulted in a deep yearning, an insatiable longing for external perception of the Lord’s Form, as envisioned by him and getting locked in His sweet embrace. Non-fulfilment of his longing has consigned the Āḻvār to the bottom-most depths of dejection, the like of which has not been witnessed, in the earlier decads. He cried out his misery, *in the fifth decad*, like unto one bodily trapped in a [forest](/definition/forest#history "show forest definitions") fire and his limbs appear to be even more worn out than their owner. The Saint beckons the Lord to appear before him, in all His splendour, wearing His crown, tall and majestic and moving along, like the exhilarating rain-[cloud](/definition/cloud#history "show cloud definitions"), the rising Sun, so on and so forth. The Lord did not, however, respond and so, this decad ends on a despondent note, the Āḻvār being led to believe that he would pass away, immured in grief;

(8-6): Stung by a deep sense of remorse over His laxity in not responding to the Āḻvār’s invitation, the Lord pondered over the steps to be taken by Him to placate the Āḻvār. But then, if He straightaway presented Himself before the Āḻvār, in his present state of mind, he would just collapse due to excessive joy. It was, therefore, expedient that the Āḻvār’s enjoyment of the Lord should be induced by stages, so as to be stable, without anything untoward happening. The Lord, therefore, stationed Himself in Tirukkaṭittāṉam (a pilgrim centre in Kerala State), so as to enable the Āḻvār to go over there and mingle with Him freely. The Āḻvār, who got scent of it, felt elated over the Lord’s overwhelming love for him and gave vent to his resultant joy *in the sixth decad-*,

(8-7): The Lord’s desire to get at the subject, His coveted belonging, is very much more than that of the Āḻvār to get hold of Him. The Lord, therefore, mingles with the Alvār, with such an inordinate longing that the Āḻvār realises, with a stinging sense of [shame](/definition/shame#history "show shame definitions"), that he had tried to reverse the role, by begging of the Lord for his redemption, overlooking the fact that it was the Lord who was all along the supplicant for the Āḻvār’s love unto Him. It is an exceedingly grateful Āḻvār that acknowledges *in the seventh decad*, with great feeling, the enormous love bestowed by the Lord on the individual soul, as the indefatigable cultivator of God-love, in the latter. The bliss enjoyed by the Āḻvār, in this context, stands on a pedestal of its own and it can even be asserted that there is no comparable decad in the entire hymnal;

(8-8): No doubt, the Āḻvār gave vent to his great jubilation, in the seventh decad and even so, in the eighth song of that decad, he referred to himself as a frail being with whom the great Lord of unlimited prowess has chosen to mingle freely and stay on. The Lord noticed, with great concern, the revival of the earlier tendency of the Āḻvār to shrink back from Him, with a frightful sense of his own pettiness, in contra-distinction to the Lord’s grandeur of unlimited dimensions. Therefore, He wanted to quell the Āḻvār’s notion of the Soul’s pettiness by revealing to him its real grandeur. But then, the soul, like unto a mere fire-fly, may not hold out any appeal to the Āḻvār, profoundly struck by the Lord’s exquisite charm. The Lord, therefore, revealed to the Āḻvār, His charm first, and then, the grandeur of the Āḻvār’s soul, in its relation of liegeship to the Sovereign Lord, as delectable unto Him as His ornaments. And so, *in the eighth decad*, the Āḻvār dwells on the intrinsic beauty of the soul, as the exclusive vassal of the Lord, as revealed by the Lord Himself;

(8-9): Seeing that Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī (Āḻvār) has come off marriageable age, the parents make known to the folks, in the town, their intention to get her married to an eligible bachelor. The Nāyakī is, however, fiercely steeped in the Supreme Lord and, as a matter of fact, she has already had secret contacts with the Lord, enshrined in Kuṭṭanāṭṭu Tiruppuliyūr (Kerala State), of which her parents were not aware. The mate, who enjoys the Nāyakī’s confidence, however, knew about it from her speech and comportment but she was afraid of inviting the wrath of the elders, if she publicised the truth about the Nāyakī. At the same time, she did not want that the elders should go ahead, with their plans and so, as a *via-media*, the mate makes it appear that she has just got to know about the Nāyakī’s affair with the Lord, at the aforesaid pilgrim centre. The mate further impresses upon the elders that, in view of this development, it would no longer be feasible for them to pursue their former plans. This brings to the fore, the Nāyakī’s inalienability from the Lord to whom she stands solely dedicated, as the object of His exclusive enjoyment. Thus the essential [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") of the soul, as set out in the eighth decad, gets crystallised still further, *in the ninth decad*.

(This is the last of the three decads, in the entire hymnal, put in the mouth of Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī’s mate, the earlier ones being IV-6 and VI-5).

(8-10): The subject’s exclusive dependence on the Supreme Lord was emphasised in the preceding decad. And now, service unto the Lord’s devotees, the logical culmination of service to the Lord, is dealt with, *in the concluding Centum of this decad*. No doubt, the essential nature of the soul, with special emphasis on the concept of servanthood (Śeṣatva), as the Lord’s vassal, extending up to His devotees, was already set out in III-7 (Payilum Cuṭaroḷi). We, however, see, in this decad, the Āḻvār intensely longing for the fulfilment of such service, constituting the final goal. Being the liege, unto the Lord’s favourite apostles and Saints on Earth, is deemed to be a greater virtue, carrying a greater value than direct allegiance to the Lord Himself.


