+++
title = "1049 Introduction to Section 9.1"

+++
In the last decad (8-10), the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") had revealed to us the quintessence of his creed, namely, looking upon the Lord’s devotees as his ‘Be-all’ and ‘End-all ‘All-in-one the sole means for attaining ‘[Mokṣa](/definition/moksha#vaishnavism "show Mokṣa definitions")’ ([Salvation](/definition/salvation#history "show Salvation definitions")). The Saint is further elaborating it, in this decad. in a manner highly delectable to the devotees, in whom he has taken refuge. The superficial reader might think that this decad strikes a note different from that of the immediately preceding decad inasmuch as the Āḻvār now looks upon the Lord as the aggregate of all conceivable kinship, one can claim. There is, however, no incompatibility between these two decads, the current one being but an elaboration of the theme, set out in the last decad. Even as ‘Bhagavad śeṣatva’, that is, service unto the Lord culminates in ‘[Bhāgavata](/definition/bhagavata#history "show Bhāgavata definitions") śeṣatva’, that is, service unto His devotees, the latter, in its natural sequence, steps into the domain of the former. It is indeed a matter of common knowledge that our love to a specified individual extends up to all those intimately connected with him or her. Likewise, love unto the godly men is automatically carried over to all those closely associated with them and the love so generated reverts to the Lord, as the one loved and revered by the devotees. In [Śloka](/definition/sloka#vaishnavism "show Śloka definitions") 51 of ‘Śrīguṇaratna Kośam’ of Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar, the illustrious author declares his love unto Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions"), as one stemming from his being the Spouse of Goddess [Śrī Raṅga](/definition/shriranga#history "show Śrī Raṅga definitions") Nāyakī (Śrī [Mahālakṣmī](/definition/mahalakshmi#vaishnavism "show Mahālakṣmī definitions")). And then, reciprocally, the [Upaniṣad](/definition/upanishad#vaishnavism "show Upaniṣad definitions") reveals its predilection for the Divine Mother, in view of Her being the Consort of the Supreme Lord, the great Ordainer of the universe—‘Asyeśānā Jagato Viṣṇupatnī’? Surely, there is no contradiction between these two versions, as they are mutually inclusive and not exclusive.

This decad copiously illustrates, in a telling manner, the utter futility of our [hanging](/definition/hanging#history "show hanging definitions") on to the earthly relations and all else except the Supreme Lord. Who alone is our Eternal Saviour and Sole Sustainer, under all circumstances. The miserable hollowness of the ephemeral bonds of the earthly relations and associates, the veritable parasites, is exposed in all its nakedness. Actually, this is but an elaboration of what the Āḻvār had already stated in V-1-8, wherein he pointed out that the Lord is the sum-total of all the happiness derived by the worldly men through glittering wealth, dazzling damsels, dutiful sons, doting parents and so on. It is this decad that set the pace for the great Piḻḻai Lokācāryā’s theme that none but the Lord is our Protector, set out in aphorism 39 of Mumukṣuppaḍi and further elaborated by him, in his esoteric treatise, known as ‘Prapanna Paṛtrāṇam’.

This decad is deemed to be in benedictive adoration of [Mathurā](/definition/mathura#vaishnavism "show Mathurā definitions"), in [Uttara](/definition/uttara#vaishnavism "show Uttara definitions") Pradesh, in view of the frequent reference, in this decad, to that holy centre.


