+++
title = "1050 Pasuram 9.1.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

கொண்ட பெண்டிர் மக்கள்உற்றார் சுற்றத்தவர் பிறரும்  
கண்டதோடு பட்டதுஅல்லால் காதல்மற்றுயாதும்இல்லை  
எண்திசையும் கீழும்மேலும் முற்றவும் உண்டபிரான்  
தொண்டரோமாய் உய்யலல்லால் இல்லைகண்டீர் துணையே (2)

koṇṭa peṇṭir makkaḷuṟṟār cuṟṟattavar piṟarum  
kaṇṭatōṭu paṭṭatuallāl kātalmaṟṟuyātumillai  
eṇticaiyum kīḻummēlum muṟṟavum uṇṭapirāṉ  
toṇṭarōmāy uyyalallāl illaikaṇṭīr tuṇaiyē (2)

**English translation of verse 9.1.1:**

Neither the wife by you acquired nor the sons unto you born  
Nor your other relations and friends shall for you entertain  
Love other than that rooted in lucre; lies indeed your salvation  
In being the vassal of the Benefactor great, Who gulped down  
Things, one and all, that lay in all the ten directions.

**Notes:**

\(i\) Addressing the men of this world, the Saint impresses upon them that they need hardly deceive themselves by lavishing their misplaced affections on the earthly relations, who are not of real consequence and that they will do well to lean, instead, on the Supreme Lord, in view of the inviolable, eternal bond between them and Him. The Āḻvār does not mince matters and points out that one’s wife and children are but goods purchased. So much of the man’s heart twines round these goods that he would not mind turning his aged parents out, into the streets, in beggar’s rags.

Regarding the acquisition of a wife, the following story, related by an eminent discourser, is indeed very interesting and instructive:

A brahmin youth ran about here and there, begging for money with which he could buy a wife. In the course of his wanderings, he reached a big city, where, unfortunately, he fell seriously ill. He had, no doubt, collected a few hundreds of rupees which served to boost up his hopes of soon getting a lady to his side. But the sickness gained ground and the poor fellow was on his death-bed, writhing in agony. When the sympathetic neighbours gathered round him and enquired of him what ailed him, he cried out: “What a pity! 1 have not been blessed with a beautiful young woman, draped in finery, standing by my pillow and cooling my burning brow with her sweet tears, at this dying moment.”

\(ii\) That the Lord is our Eternal Relation and unfailing Protector is brought out by the manner in which He sustained, unasked and unsolicited, all things and beings, in His stomach, during the Deluge, so that they may not be swept off by the terrific waters. Our salvation, sure and certain, therefore, lies in the recognition of our essential nature, namely, being at the sole disposal of the Supreme Lord, as His exclusive vassal.


