+++
title = "1051 Pasuram 9.1.2"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

துணையும் சார்வும்ஆகுவார்போல் சுற்றத்தவர்பிறரும்  
அணையவந்த ஆக்கம்உண்டேல் அட்டைகள்போல் சுவைப்பர்  
கணைஒன்றாலே ஏழ்மரமும் எய்த எம்கார்முகிலைப்  
புணைஎன்றுஉய்யப் போகல்அல்லால் இல்லைகண்டீர்பொருளே.

tuṇaiyum cārvumākuvārpōl cuṟṟattavarpiṟarum  
aṇaiyavanta ākkamuṇṭēl aṭṭaikaḷpōl cuvaippar  
kaṇaioṉṟālē ēḻmaramum eyta emkārmukilaip  
puṇaieṉṟuuyyap pōkalallāl illaikaṇṭīrporuḷē.

**English translation of verse 9.1.2:**

The earthly kinsmen and others are after your money and yet pretend  
To be your benefactors, safe and sincere, and you they befriend  
Only to suck you out like leeches as long as they choose;  
Better take refuge in our cloud-hued Lord, Who did pierce  
With but a single shaft the trees seven; ‘tis no use,  
Take note, pinning your faith on others.

**Notes:**

\(i\) (The earthly relations flock, in strength, to those enjoying wealth and opulence, just to grab whatever they can. These are veritable parasites, putting on the garb of well-wishers and benefactors and are least dependable. On the other hand, the Lord succours even those who are sceptical and entertain doubts about His strength and dispensation. Sugrīva’s attitude towards Lord Rāma, even after He had promised to relieve the distress of the former by slaying Vali, the powerful monkey king, is the pointer. Sugrīva’s doubts about Śrī Rāma’s ability to vanquish the formidable Vāli were dispelled only after He ably demonstrated His strength and skill by (1) Kicking off, to an enormous distance, the skeleton of Dundubi, the Rākṣasa, slain by Vāli, after a long and grim struggle and (2) sending a powerful shaft which pierced the Seven *Sāl* trees and the seven worlds beyond and ultimately returned to the Lord’s quiver, as proof-positive of His enormous strength, more than a match indeed for Vāli, despite the latter’s colossal strength. It should also be noted that the Lord seeks nothing in return, like unto the benevolent rain-clouds unleashing water all over. Therefore it is, He is referred to here, as the cloud-hued.

\(ii\) Again, look at the multifarious ways in which Lord Kṛṣṇa stood beside the Pandavas and Droupati, through thick and thin and protected them at every turn. The lesson to be learnt, from all these, is that the Lord is our sole support and leaning on Him is always productive of immense good while dependence on others can only breed miseries.


