+++
title = "1054 Pasuram 9.1.5"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

சதுரம்என்று தம்மைத்தாமே சம்மதித்து இன்மொழியார்  
மதுரபோகம் துற்றவரே வைகிமற்றுஒன்றுஉறுவர்  
அதிர்கொள்செய்கை அசுரர்மங்க வடமதுரைப்பிறந்தாற்கு  
எதிர்கொள்ஆளாய் உய்யல்அல்லால் இல்லைகண்டீர் இன்பமே.

caturameṉṟu tammaittāmē cammatittu iṉmoḻiyār  
maturapōkam tuṟṟavarē vaikimaṟṟuoṉṟuuṟuvar  
atirkoḷceykai acurarmaṅka vaṭamaturaippiṟantāṟku  
etirkoḷāḷāy uyyalallāl illaikaṇṭīr iṉpamē.

**English translation of verse 9.1.5:**

Alas! they that did of their ability boast and revel  
In dalliance with the sweet-tongued damsels,  
Will some time be by them put to shame and ridicule;  
There’s no greater bliss indeed than being the loving vassal  
Of the Lord Who, in North Maturai, was born to quell  
The fell Asuras who did perpetrate deeds abominable.

**Notes:**

\(i\) With their youthful vigour and wealth drained off, the erstwhile heroes, the dynamic centre of attraction for the voluptuous women of rare beauty, fade out miserably. And yet, these men try, in vain, to trade on their past reputation and are beaten back and unrelentingly repelled by those very women on whom they had lavished their love and lucre. The necessity for alluding to the inconstancy of these base women arises from the fact that, in this decad, the Āḻvār not only impresses the need for our giving up dependence on all our earthly relations and clinging to the Lord instead, but also brings home the grim truth that the world is steeped in ingratitude and is thus prone to spurn the erstwhile donors and benefactors. All these lead to the logical compulsion of our pinning our faith solely in Him, Who will stand by us, under all circumstances and salve us. The bliss, derived from God-love, is not only far superior to that sought in the company of the fair ladies but also everlasting.

\(ii\) As Nampiḷḷai puts it, all that we have to do to win the love of God is not to repel the influx of His sweet grace, as and when it descends on us. On hearing that Śrī Kṛṣṇa would be visiting Hastinapur  shortly, as an emissary of the Pāṇḍavas, King Dhṛtarāṣṭra did some loud thinking, as follows: “Kṛṣṇa, the partisan of the Pāṇḍavas will be going over here shortly, to mediate on their behalf. Let us try to square him up, by giving him land and gold.” The pious Sañjaya, however, cut to size the hapless old king and disabused him of his wrong notions about Lord Kṛṣṇa, by saying: “All that Kṛṣṇa would need and care for is the simple courtesy normally extended to an ordinary sojourner, namely, cool water for washing the weary feet and kind words of enquiry. Anything else, you might like to offer Him. should be out of an innate love for Him and not by way of winning Him over; in the latter case, He would just spurn it all”.

\(iii\) The so-called earthly pleasures are always tinged with sorrow, like unto a man right on the gallows, about to be hanged, quenching his thirst and feeling satisfied or like shelter from the gruelling heat of the Sun, in the shade cast by the outstretched hood of an infuriated cobra. On the other hand, the bliss enjoyed, in the service of the Supreme Lord, is unalloyed, an end in itself, fraught with felicity.


