+++
title = "1058 Pasuram 9.1.9"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

யாதும்இல்லை மிக்குஅதனில் என்றுஎன்று அதுகருதி  
காதுசெய்வான் கூதைசெய்து கடைமுறை வாழ்க்கையும்போம்  
மாதுகிலின் கொடிக்கொள்மாட வடமதுரைப்பிறந்த  
தாதுசேர்தோள் கண்ணன் அல்லால் இல்லை கண்டீர் சரணே.

yātumillai mikkuataṉil eṉṟueṉṟu atukaruti  
kātuceyvāṉ kūtaiceytu kaṭaimuṟai vāḻkkaiyumpōm  
mātukiliṉ koṭikkoḷmāṭa vaṭamaturaippiṟanta  
tātucērtōḷ kaṇṇaṉ allāl illai kaṇṭīr caraṇē.

**English translation of verse 9.1.9:**

Things mundane, one might deem quite often,  
As the goal supreme, but alas! it would dwindle down,  
Like unto earlobes, disfigured with holes wide open,  
By those seeking to decorate them; haven there’s none  
But Kaṇṇaṉ, whose shoulders are bedecked with garlands fine,  
Who, in North [Maturai](/definition/maturai#vaishnavism "show Maturai definitions"), with banners atop the castles, was born.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The Saint warns those seeking protection in any one other than the Supreme Lord, that they are in for deterioration, instead of going up the scale and that they would, in the bargain, get dislodged even from the old order of things. These men will, therefore, do well to seek refuge in the Supreme Lord, the unfailing Protector. This position is brought home vividly by citing the example of those, with charming ear-lobes, disfiguring them in the name of [decorating](/definition/decorating#history "show decorating definitions") themselves with [gold](/definition/gold#history "show gold definitions") [ear-rings](/definition/earring#history "show ear-rings definitions") by piercing therein elongated holes. In his unique diction, Nampiḷḷai, the great glossator, puts it that even the so-called enjoyment of [family](/definition/family#history "show family definitions") [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), bristling with progeny and the resultant din and tussle, will decline, when people seek the protection of any other than the Supreme Lord who, as Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"), was born in North [Mathura](/definition/mathura#vaishnavism "show Mathura definitions"); they will thus be in an unenviable position, neither here nor there.

\(ii\) Yet another interpretation of this song, given in the commentary of Tirukkurukaippirāṉ Piḷḷāṉ, is as follows: Those that endeavour to attain ‘[Kaivalya](/definition/kaivalya#vaishnavism "show Kaivalya definitions") [mokṣa](/definition/moksha#vaishnavism "show mokṣa definitions") ‘(i.e.) enjoyment of the Self, in its disembodied state, freed from the cycle of [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") and [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions"), treating it as the Supreme goal, instead of God-enjoyment, stand to lose even the ḷittḻe enjoyment they had in family life. The analogy of disfiguring the ear-lobes, in the name of decorating them, holds good here also.


