+++
title = "1063 Introduction to Section 9.2"

+++
The inviolable and eternal bond between us and the Supreme Lord, Who combines in Him the different facets of earthly relationship known to us, was stressed upon in the last decad, incidentally throwing overboard our so-called relationship with all the rest. The [Upaniṣads](/definition/upanishad#vaishnavism "show Upaniṣads definitions") proclaim that the Lord is “All-in-one”, “*[Mātā](/definition/mata#history "show Mātā definitions") [Pitā](/definition/pita#vaishnavism "show Pitā definitions"), Brātā, Nivāsaś Śaraṇam Suhrut gathir [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions")*”. Actually, He stays in His ‘[Arca](/definition/arca#history "show Arca definitions")’ (iconic) Form, in the pilgrim centre known as Tiruppuḷiṅkuṭi, only to extend to His votaries all the benefits which they could expect from their earthly relations, mother, father, brother etc.

Therefore it is, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") now proceeds (mentally of course) to that holy centre, eager to become the recipient of the Lord’s love and attention, the aggregate of all that the numerous relations could bestow. But then, the Lord remained unresponsive, without so much as casting on the Āḻvār His sweet glances, [uttering](/definition/uttering#history "show uttering definitions") kind words of enquiry and so on. This did not, however, detract front the Āḻvār’s immense faith in Him, as his all. He could certainly await, with all that robust confidence, the descent of the Lord’s grace, the bestowal on him of the Lord's caressing love and attention, if not the same day, the next day or the day after. But what agitated the Āḻvār’s mind, meanwhile, was the manner in which the Lord was reclining in the holy centre, without changing even once, by way of readjustment, the posture assumed by Him right at the start, a very difficult thing indeed! As a matter of fact, the Āḻvār had already echoed his anxiety, rather uneasiness, in this regard, in VIĪI-3-5 and this is but a follow-up. The Āḻvār, closetted with the Lord in the [shrine](/definition/shrine#history "show shrine definitions"), would now plead with the Lord privately that He should deign to move about, come forward.a few paces in the [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions") of His Divine consorts, greet him with His bewitching smiles and so on. The Āḻvār is thus seeking, in this decad, the benefits accruing from the attainment of the Lord, the final goal, lauded by him, in the preceding decad.

Meaning apart, the diction of this decad is such as to melt even stony hearts. Those of us, who get caught up in the bewildering complexities of [family](/definition/family#history "show family definitions") [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), will do well to chant this decad and feel relieved and refreshed. How soothing are these verses indeed!


