+++
title = "1065 Pasuram 9.2.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

குடிக்கிடந்து ஆக்கம்செய்து நின்தீர்த்த அடிமைக் குற்றேவல்செய்து உன்பொன்  
அடிக்கடவாதே வழிவருகின்ற அடியரோர்க்கு அருளி நீஒருநாள்  
படிக்குஅளவாக நிமிர்த்த நின்பாத பங்கயமே தலைக்குஅணியாய்  
கொடிக்கொள் பொன்மதிள்சூழ் குளிர்வயல்சோலை திருப்புளிங் குடிக்கிடந்தானே.

kuṭikkiṭantu ākkamceytu niṉtīrtta aṭimaik kuṟṟēvalceytu uṉpoṉ  
aṭikkaṭavātē vaḻivarukiṉṟa aṭiyarōrkku aruḷi nīorunāḷ  
paṭikkuaḷavāka nimirtta niṉpāta paṅkayamē talaikkuaṇiyāy  
koṭikkoḷ poṉmatiḷcūḻ kuḷirvayalcōlai tiruppuḷiṅ kuṭikkiṭantāṉē.

**English translation of verse 9.2.2:**

May You, Oh Lord! reposing in Tiruppuḻiṅkuṭi whose [golden](/definition/gold#history "show golden definitions") [walls](/definition/wall#history "show walls definitions")  
Are with creepers adorned alongside [fields](/definition/field#history "show fields definitions") and gardens cool,  
Shed your grace on us, your vassals from generations, by You blest  
To cling to Your lovely feet and render service steadfast,  
And may You my head decorate with Your lotus feet,  
Which did once suitably expand and span all the worlds.

**Notes:**

\(i\) While praying unto the Lord at Tiruppuḷiṅkuṭi that He be pleased to place His lotus feet, the safe and easy refuge of one and all, on his head, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") expatiates on his steadfast servanthood (śeṣatva), which lends itself to four components, namely, strict adherence to the traditional creed of exclusive service unto the Lord and His devotees, enhancing the [family](/definition/family#history "show family definitions") name by enriching the tradition through rare conduct without precedent, rendering service unto the Lord with single-minded devotion, untainted by worldly pursuits and unflinching subservience to the Lord’s will, as distinguished from service rendered at one’s own sweet will. In regard to these components of servanthood, the illustrious author of ‘[Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions") Hṛdayam’ puts the Āḻvār on a par with [Bharata](/definition/bharata#vaishnavism "show Bharata definitions"). When sage Vaśiṣṭa and the council of Ministers of [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions") [Daśaratha](/definition/dasharatha#vaishnavism "show Daśaratha definitions") wanted to make Bharata, the king, in place of [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") sent into exile, Bharata would not agree to it, on the ground that it would mark a daring departure from the established tradition of the [Ikṣvāku](/definition/ikshvaku#vaishnavism "show Ikṣvāku definitions") dynasty whereby only the eldest son wore the crown. It is this traditional sanctity that the Āḻvār also emphasises in this song.

\(ii\) Indeed, Bharata added lustre to the traditional glory by leading the austere [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") of an ascetic during [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions")’s exile, lying on a bare floor and getting his body smeared with mud and so on. Likewise, saint Nāmmalvār stood with eyes dried and parched-up lips, bailed out, with his palms the torrential [tears](/definition/tear#history "show tears definitions") from his eyes and fell down on the floor, fainting with grief, during those moments of extreme desolation, when the Lord did not favour him with His vision.

\(iii\) No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), both [Lakṣmaṇa](/definition/lakshmana#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmaṇa definitions") and Bharata served Śrī Rāma and yet, there was a fundamental difference between them. Whereas Lakṣmaṇa would insist that he shall follow Śrī Rāma into exile and serve Him, in every conceivable manner, Bharata’s stance was one of total subservience to Śrī Rāma’s sovereign will. Although his mission of getting Sri Rāma, back home from exile, did not succeed, yet Bharata was happy that he could at least get the Lord’s pair of sandals, as His Regent, to be installed on the [throne](/definition/throne#history "show throne definitions") during His absence from [Ayodhya](/definition/ayodhya#vaishnavism "show Ayodhya definitions"). The Āḻvār claims that he is also made of the same stuff as Bharata and is, therefore entitled to the Lord’s grace. The Āḻvār also invokes the Lord’s pair of feet which, in fact, had been set by Him on one and all, without distinction of high and low, during His [Avatāra](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāra definitions") as the sprawling Tṛvikrama.

\(iv\) As regards the description, in this song, of the pilgrim centre, as one enclosed by scintillating walls adjoining fertile fields and cool gardens, there is a juicy interpretation from Nampiḷḷai, which none but one of his gigantic intellect could conceive. The grief of [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions"), in captivity, was two-fold, namely, (i) melancholy due to her misgivings about Śrī Rāma’s intention in regard to redeeming her, in view of the enormous lapse of time and (ii) dejection due to separation from her Lord. The first vanished on her [meeting](/definition/meeting#history "show meeting definitions") [Hanumān](/definition/hanuman#vaishnavism "show Hanumān definitions"). So also, the Āḻvār’s dejection falls into two distinct compartments, namely, (i) apprehension of the possibility of anything untoward happening to the Lord reclining in this land of dark nescience and (ii) inability to mingle with the Lord to his heart’s fill. The first part of the Āḻvār’s disquietude gets eliminated by the stately walls enclosing the holy place and what remains is the second for allaying which the Āḻvār makes the [prayer](/definition/prayer#history "show prayer definitions"), as in the third [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") of this song.


