+++
title = "1078 Pasuram 9.3.2"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

அவனேஅகல்ஞாலம் படைத்துஇடந்தான்  
அவனேஅஃதுஉண்டுஉமிழ்ந்தான் அளந்தான்  
அவனேஅவனும் அவனும்அவனும்  
அவனே மற்றுஎல்லாமும் அறிந்தனமே.

avaṉēakalñālam paṭaittuiṭantāṉ  
avaṉēaḵtuuṇṭuumiḻntāṉ aḷantāṉ  
avaṉēavaṉum avaṉumavaṉum  
avaṉē maṟṟuellāmum aṟintaṉamē.

**English translation of verse 9.3.2:**

‘Tis He Who did ordain the spacious Universe  
And pulled it out from beneath the deep waters

‘Tis He Who the said Universe did gulp once,  
Then spat and spanned; he (Brahmā), he (Śiva) and he (Indra), He is,  
And all other things and beings, He is besides;  
[This] we learn (thro’ knowledge by Him bestowed).

**Notes:**

The Supreme Lord, as the great Ordainer of the Universe, combines in Himself all the three causes of creation, the material, the operative and the instrumental. He is also ṭhe Universal Saviour Who sustained the Universe inside His stomach, during the deluge, rescued it from the oceanic depths after encountering the formidable Hiraṇyākṣa, the golden-eyed demon and so on. The lands expropriated by the powerful Mahābali were reclaimed by the Lord by spanning all the worlds, in just three strides, and restored to the Devās. The Lord is the Internal Controller of one and all, without distinction of high and low; the original text of the song runs as “He is he, he and he....”, in the Vedic pattern of ‘*Sa* Brahmās *sa* Śivas *sa* Indras sokṣaraḥ Paramaśvarāṭ....” (Puruṣa Sūkta). The pronoun ‘He’, occurring seven times, in the original text of this song, is indicated by ‘Saḥ’ (He) occuring in the above vedic text. The exalted Brahmā, Śiva, Indra and other Celestials as well as the ordinary denizens elsewhere are all dominated by the Lord, as their Internal Controller, a fact revealed to the Āḻvār by the Lord Himself, vide I-1-1.


