+++
title = "1089 Introduction to Section 9.4"

+++
The ‘Śāstras’ (Scriptural texts) proclaim, on the one hand, that the Supreme Lord is One of unbridled independence, and on the other, depict Him as an embodiment of innumerable auspicious traits. The latter get submerged when the former holds sway. But when the Lord’s independence gets subdued through the irresistible spell cast by Mahā Lakṣmī’s personal magnetism and the persuasive eloquence of Her pleadings, the auspicious qualities denoted by His name, ‘Nārāyaṉa’, become pronounced. These are: Tender solicitude (Vātsalya), Sovereignty (Svāmitva), Loving condescension (Sauśīlya), Easy accessibility (Saulabhya), knowledge (Jñāna) and Power or Energy (Śakti). Fully aware that the Lord does possess, *inter alia*, the trait of loving condescension and that the Divine Mother is the fountain source of inspiration for the influx of this grand trait, the Āḻvār naturally grieved, all the more, over his erstwhile plight of separation from the Lord, despite his inordinate longing for incessant communion with Him. The Āḻvār pined for the on-coming of the Lord, in the manner He rushed to the rescue of Gajendra, the pious elephant in dire distress and sprang forth from the pillar to shed His unique grace on Prahlādha, the young devotee. The Lord, on His part, was keen to maintain His reputation as the Repository of all auspicious qualities and presented Himself to the Āḻvār; if He did not respond to the Āḻvār’s call even now, despite His deep yearning, all that is claimed for Him by the Scriptures would be of no more than academic value, mere words, high-sounding like the roaring of the sea. Overjoyed by the Lord’s presence (mental vision), the Āḻvār ends up this decad by giving vent ro his gratitude for the Lord having pressed him into service and got these hymns, sung by him, for the edification of the pious. “What a bliss and that too, bestowed on a single individual!” is how the Āḻvār revolves in his mind.


