+++
title = "109 Introduction to Section 1.9"

+++
If the Lord’s flow of grace unto the hitherto starved Soul were to be full and flooding, all of a sudden, the Subject cannot stand it and will just get swept off his feet. It is a matter of common knowledge how babes are fed through a graded course, beginning with breast milk, a little gruel some time later, and then, small bits of rice and so on. If, out of misplaced love, a parent fed the young one straightaway on adult scale-rice, curry and all that—the result would be disastrous. As in the case of [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions"), in the matter of imparting [education](/definition/education#history "show education definitions") also, one goes step by step. Little wonder then, the omniscient Lord regulates the influx of His grace in such a manner that the recipient is able to stomach it all right.

As is oft repeated in these pages, the Lord’s grace is the sole means for attaining Him and yet, against the above background, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") was not straightaway conferred the final bliss right at the beginning when he prayed to the Lord (opening song of Tiruviruttam) for the termination of existence in his foul body. The Āḻvār had to pass through a course of shock treatment, experiencing alternately the bliss of Divine presence and union and the cruel pangs of separation, whetting his appetite and enriching his Divine love and wisdom all the time. Before wearing a heavy ornament in the ear which is pretty delicate, one has to gradually prepare the ground by enlarging the ear-hole by stages, first inserting a small piece of string, then a thin metallic ring or chip and so on. Again, one who has been on a month’s fast, either due to sickness or as a matter of penance, has to restart taking food only by stages, rice ground into a paste being smeared on the body, oral administration of gruel of low consistency, so on and so forth. The Lord, according to the Āḻvār’s own admission in this decad as well as 1V-5-5, unfolds unto the Āḻvār His glorious traits and deeds by stages, consistent with his capacity for in-take. (See aphorism 115 of [Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions") Hṛdayam). It would indeed be too much for the Āḻvār to bear if he were conferred, all at once, bliss enjoyed by the Eternal Angels in the Lord’s close proximity in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"). No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), the Lord covets the Āḻvār’s body, being the last of the series of bodies donned by him, in which the Lord has now been able to reclaim him. And yet He would not straightaway jump into the crown of his head, much as He would like to. If He did so, it would doubtless bring about the sudden collapse of the Āḻvār, like unto the pauper from [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions"), who suddenly comes by a sizable treasure, succumbing to the shock. He would first get near the Āḻvār, stand close to him, get into his hip, thence move upwards, to the region of his heart from there, step on to the shoulder, enter his tongue, peep through his eyes, pause for a while on the forehead and then reach the head, His ultimate destination. It is this trait of a well-regulated flow of the Lord’s grace that the Āḻvār admires and brings out in this decad.


