+++
title = "1099 Pasuram 9.4.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

அடியான் இவன்என்று எனக்குஆர்அருள்செய்யும்  
நெடியானை நிறைபுகழ் அம்சிறைப் புள்ளின்  
கொடியானை குன்றாமல் உலகம்அளந்த  
அடியானை அடைந்து அடியேன் உய்ந்தவாறே

aṭiyāṉ ivaṉeṉṟu eṉakkuāraruḷceyyum  
neṭiyāṉai niṟaipukaḻ amciṟaip puḷḷiṉ  
koṭiyāṉai kuṉṟāmal ulakamaḷanta  
aṭiyāṉai aṭaintu aṭiyēṉ uyntavāṟē

**English translation of verse 9.4.10:**

Oh, what a bliss this vassal has attained!  
The Lord, who the worlds, with no exception, spanned.  
On Whose banner is the [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions"), of large fame and lovely plumes,  
Has lavished on me, as His vassal dear, His grace supreme.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") proclaims with great joy that the Lord has lavished on him His grace galore, looking upon him as His vassal. Here is a suggestion that, although he is not a true [servant](/definition/servant#history "show servant definitions") as such of the Lord, He has deigned to look upon him as one and, on that score, lavished all His affections on him. Delving into the inner core of the meaning yielded by the original text of this song, Nampiḷḷai would say, the Lord’s bounty, which is commensurate with His own greatness, is for His own delectation and does not, in the least, depend upon the stature of the recipient, high or low. Did not the Lord set His lovely pair of feet on one and all, without distinction of high or low, unasked and unsolicited, during His advent as Tṛvikrama?

\(ii\) It is noteworthy, in this context, that the subject fares better as the Lord's servant (vassal) than as His child. Whereas children inherit but a portion of the father’s property, the [servants](/definition/servant#history "show servants definitions") become the sole objects of the master’s strong affections. Further, the former is but a material gain whereas the latter is spiritual in its content. When Piḷḷai Akalaṅka [Brahma](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahma definitions") Rāyar, the disciple of Kūrattāḷvāṉ, offended, unwittingly though, [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar, the [Guru](/definition/guru#vaishnavism "show Guru definitions")’s son, the latter left [Śrīraṅgam](/definition/shrirangam#vaishnavism "show Śrīraṅgam definitions") for Tirukkōṭṭiyūr. Rāyar naturally felt uneasy over this turn of events; in his great anxiety for conciliation with Bhaṭṭārya, Rāyar sought the good offices of one ‘Irukai [mata](/definition/mata#history "show mata definitions") vāraṇaṉ’, an intimate servant of Bhaṭṭārya, for mediation and despatched him to Tirukkōṭṭiyūr on a peace-mission. With his coaxing eloquence and personal magnetism, the servant, a mere [weaver](/definition/weaver#history "show weaver definitions"), by caste, so very dear to Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions") and Bhaṭṭārya alike, brought about the change of heart in Bhaṭṭārya who deigned to forgive Rāyar. When observers exḷaimed that it is only an exemplary servant, who could accomplish such a difficult task, Bhaṭṭārya responded, saying that Vāraṇaṉ was, by his very [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions"), a born-servant, who could conquer all. So great is the efficacy of service and it is little wonder then that the Lord values it most and lavishes His affections on the devout servants.


