+++
title = "1102 Introduction to Section 9.5"

+++
The Lord pulled the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") out of his erstwhile dejection, by reminding him of the great felicity, conferred by Him. This refers to the Āḻvār’s great role in [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") these hymns for the delectation of the devout. The Āḻvār also felt gratified that it was indeed a great gift of the loving Lord and this sustained the Āḻvār for the time being, as we saw in the last decad. But then, in the eighth song of that decad, the Āḻvār referred to his having got the vision of Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"), a by-gone [Avatāra](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāra definitions") (Incarnation). This led him on to the desire for external perception of the Lord as well, without being confined to a mere mental vision. It did not, however, materialise, as the Lord was intent upon rousing theĀḻvār’s appetite for Him to still further heights, before He would eventually present Himself physically. Worn out by dejection, due to this seeming desertion by the Lord, the Āḻvār tried to divert his mind by seeking the fellowship of things around, bearing the Lord's likeness. But the very things, chosen for diversion, served only as incentives to remind the Āḻvār, all the more, about the Lord and thus [torment](/definition/torment#history "show torment definitions") him. The Āḻvār’s sad predicament in IV-4 is worth recalling, in this context.

In his present love-smitten mood, the Āḻvār is like unto a female-[lover](/definition/lover#history "show lover definitions"), separated from the Lord after their erstwhile union, trying to sustain herself in the sweet environments of a lovely garden. But there, the warbling koel and the blue [peacock](/definition/peacock#history "show peacock definitions") remind the forlorn lover of the Lord’s sweet accents and charming complexion and she at once concludes that the Lord has set these creatures on her, just to make her collapse, pining for Him. She, therefore, asks them why they are at such great [pains](/definition/pain#history "show pains definitions") to put an end to her [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") which she would as well part with, at her own volition. Even so, the Nāyakī manages to pull through, recounting, in this decad, the Lord’s auspicious traits.

Here is an interesting anecdote, revealing how fascinating this decad was for Saint Rāmānuja. Once a misunderstanding arose between him and the [temple](/definition/temple#history "show temple definitions") minstrel-in-chief, Āḻvār Tiruvaraṅkapperumāḷ Araiyar, resulting in the Saint’s discontinuance of his [visits](/definition/visit#history "show visits definitions") to the Temple of Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions") at [Śrīraṅgam](/definition/shrirangam#vaishnavism "show Śrīraṅgam definitions"). The Araiyar, who was anxious to appease Rāmānuja, hit upon a special device whereby the Saint could be brought round and made to [visit](/definition/visit#history "show visit definitions") the temple. News was sent to the Saint that, on a certain day, this particular decad would be featured in the day’s service at the temple. Rāmānuja promptly attended the service and peace between him and the Araiyar was thus restored. So great was the hold, this decad had on the Saint.


