+++
title = "1123 Pasuram 9.6.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கோள்உண்டான் அன்றிவந்து என்உயிர் தான்உண்டான்  
நாளும்நாள்வந்து என்னை முற்றவும் தான்உண்டான்  
காளநீர்மேகத் தென்காட்கரை என்அப்பற்கு  
ஆள்அன்றேபட்டது என்ஆர்உயிர் பட்டதே.

kōḷuṇṭāṉ aṉṟivantu eṉuyir tāṉuṇṭāṉ  
nāḷumnāḷvantu eṉṉai muṟṟavum tāṉuṇṭāṉ  
kāḷanīrmēkat teṉkāṭkarai eṉappaṟku  
āḷaṉṟēpaṭṭatu eṉāruyir paṭṭatē.

**English translation of verse 9.6.8:**

There’s indeed nothing I could unto the Lord offer  
And yet, He did out of His voluntary grace enter  
My soul and day by day consumed it, in full;  
Should my [cloud](/definition/cloud#history "show cloud definitions")-hued Lord, Who does in [Kāṭkarai](/definition/katkarai#vaishnavism "show Kāṭkarai definitions") dwell,  
Afflict thus my soul, simply because I am His vassal?

**Notes:**

\(i\) Even as the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") experiences the marvellous communications unfolded unto him from the Lord, an inexhaustible fountain of bliss, ever fresh, the Lord enjoys the Āḻvār with a similar feeling of reciprocity. The Āḻvār says:

(*a*) The Lord lavished His affections on the Āḻvār’s soul, purely as a matter of spontaneous grace;

(*b*) The Lord enjoyed the Āḻvār with an avidity which gave one the impression that He had never before come across one, so delicious and

(*c*) The Lord got hold of the Āḻvār, out of His own free-will and sweet grace (Paragata Svīkāra), as distinguished from ‘[Svagata](/definition/svagata#vaishnavism "show Svagata definitions") Svīkāra (*i.e*.) the Āḻvār courting Him.

\(ii\) It might be questioned how the all-pervading Lord is said to have feasted on the Āḻvār’s soul, smaller than a spec. What the Āḻvār emphasises here is the exuberance of the Lord’s love unto the Āḻvār, which makes even his tiny little soul loom large in His eyes. It was just a frugal fare that [Vidura](/definition/vidura#vaishnavism "show Vidura definitions") provided for Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") and Yet, He ate it with such great relish that it looked like a number of courses, as indicated by the plural phraseology, ‘Vidurānnādhi’, in the text.

\(iii\) What precisely does the Āḻvār refer to, when he says that his soul is afflicted? It is sheer God-enjoyment, the rapturous contemplation of His auspicious attributes, transporting the Āḻvār to the realm of ecstasy, where one can hardly remain steady and stable. It is indeed a unique experience, very different from that of the ungodly, pitted against the Lord and smitten by His unrelenting arrows; the former is the region of the mind while the latter is purely physical.


