+++
title = "1178 Pasuram 9.10.11"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

பாடுசாரா வினைபற்றுஅற வேண்டுவீர்  
மாடம்நீடு குருகூர்ச்சடகோபன் சொல்  
பாடலானதமிழ் ஆயிரத்துள் இப்பத்தும்-  
பாடிஆடிப் பணிமின் அவன் தாள்களே (2)

pāṭucārā viṉaipaṟṟuaṟa vēṇṭuvīr  
māṭamnīṭu kurukūrccaṭakōpaṉ col  
pāṭalāṉatamiḻ āyirattuḷ ippattum-  
pāṭiāṭip paṇimiṉ avaṉ tāḷkaḷē (2)

**English translation of verse 9.10.11:**

Those of You that wish to banish effectively your age-long sins,  
Will do well to dance, singing lustily these songs ten,  
Out of the thousand choice Tamil Songs composed by Caṭakōpaṉ  
Of Kurukūr, with castles tall and the Lord’s holy feet attain.

**Notes:**

\(i\) Even the end-song partakes of the character of the other songs, in this decad, couched, as it is, in the form of an address (advice) to the men around. It can also be interpreted as conveying the benefit accruing by dint of singing these ten songs, namely, attainment of the Lord’s blissful feet. Those who sing, tunefully and with ecstatic devotion, these ten songs in adoration of Lord Śourirājaṉ [Śaurirāja/Śaurirājan?], enshrined in Tirukkaṇṇapuram, will have their sins eradicated, root and branch and attain His glorious feet. These mellifluous songs, like unto fragrant flowers, are so sweet that they hold out an irresistible fascination even to the non-zealous and unfriendly ones, if they did but once recite them.

\(ii\) It was the superabundant grace of Lord Kṛṣṇa, that impelled Him to restate through His Song Celestial, the central teachings of the Upaniṣads, for the benefit of the different grades of mankind in varying stages of evolution. Even so, Saint Nammāḻvār, well on the verge of entry into the destined land, the Heaven, would not rest on his oars but address the worldlings, out of deep compassion, with an eye on the spiritual uplift of one and all. He has indeed a recipe to suit every taste, seeing that men’s tastes differ according to their calibre and equipment—vide aphorism 227 of Ācārya Hṛdayam.


