+++
title = "1183 Pasuram 10.1.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

தாள தாமரைத் தடம்அணி வயல் திருமோகூர்  
நாளும் மேவி நன்குஅமர்ந்து நின்று அசுரரைத் தகர்க்கும்  
தோளும் நான்குஉடைச் சுரிகுழல் கமலக்கண் கனிவாய்க்  
காள மேகத்தை அன்றி மற்றொன்றுஇலம் கதியே. (2)

tāḷa tāmarait taṭamaṇi vayal tirumōkūr  
nāḷum mēvi naṉkuamarntu niṉṟu acurarait takarkkum  
tōḷum nāṉkuuṭaic curikuḻal kamalakkaṇ kaṉivāyk  
kāḷa mēkattai aṉṟi maṟṟoṉṟuilam katiyē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.1.1:**

Escort have we none but the cloud-hued Lord,  
With shoulders four that shall the Asuras smite,  
Curly locks, lotus eyes and lips, red and bright,  
Who does for ever dwell with great delight  
In Tirumōkūr with strong-petalled lotus ponds and rich paddy fields.

**Notes:**

\(i\) It is but natural that a person, roasted by gruelling heat, looks for relief through a deep plunge into a cool pond or showers from the sky. The Āḻvār, about to be rid of the parching heat of Saṃsāra, has likewise got hold of Lord ‘Kāḷamēgam enshrined in Tirumōkūr. This Deity has also been referred to, later in this decad-vide eighth song, as the pond, cool and lovely, yielded by king Daśaratha, the safe Refuge, rather the one and only Refuge.

\(ii\) The lotus ponds and the paddy fields allude to the great ones, characterised by plain living (lying low, in utter humility, like the paddy crops studded with grains) and high thinking (like the lotus flowers, displayed majestically on the tall stalks sprouting from the watery depths).

\(iii\) The Lord resides in this sportive universe, with greater delight than in Heaven, because it is here that His auspicious traits of easy accessibility, tender solicitude etc., shine with greater splendour, like unto a lamp lit at night, as distinguished from one commissioned in broad day-light.

\(iv\) Even in His Area or Iconic manifestation at Tirumōkūr, the Lord’s sinewy shoulders proclaim the valorous deeds performed by them during His Avatāras (Incarnations), like unto the ear lobes, though not decorated with earrings at present, telling the tale of their erstwhile decoration.


