+++
title = "1196 Pasuram 10.2.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

கெடும் இடர்ஆயஎல்லாம் கேசவா என்ன நாளும்  
கொடுவினை செய்யும் கூற்றின் தமர்களும் குறுககில்லார்  
விடம்உடை அரவில்பள்ளி விரும்பினான் சுரும்பலற்றும்  
தடம்உடை வயல் அனந்தபுரநகர் புகுதும்இன்றே (2)

keṭum iṭarāyaellām kēcavā eṉṉa nāḷum  
koṭuviṉai ceyyum kūṟṟiṉ tamarkaḷum kuṟukakillār  
viṭamuṭai aravilpaḷḷi virumpiṉāṉ curumpalaṟṟum  
taṭamuṭai vayal aṉantapuranakar pukutumiṉṟē (2)

**English translation of verse 10.2.1:**

Right this day shall we enter holy Aṉantapuram  
In whose ponds and ḷḷelds fertile do merry bees hum.  
Where the Lord reposes lovingly on His serpent-bed;  
Your entry into the holy city, Yama’s agents dare not impede,  
Though they are known to torment continually; if we do but utter  
The holy name, ‘Kēcava’, all our sins shall forthwith disappear.

**Notes:**

\(i\) There could possibly be quite a few things, standing in the way of one’s entry into the holy city of Aṉantapuram, (Tiruvaṉantapuram, the capital of Kerala State) which the Āḻvār now longs to laud and enjoy. But then, the Lord’s names are handy enough to dispel the sins of the chanters of these names and thus remove all the impediments in the way of their achieving the desired objective. Among the several meanings, conveyed by the holy name ‘Keśava’, the one which would be most apt in the present context, is: the destroyer of the horse-shaped fiend, named Keśi, set up by King Kaṃsa to kill Kṛṣṇa, the Divine Child. ‘Keśi’, the demon, typifies enemies in general and the mere mention of the name of the Lord, denoting His destruction of just one enemy, that is, Keśi, is enough to destroy all our enemies, that is all our sins, that stand between us and the Lord. Did not the single offender (Rāvaṇa) bring on the destruction of his entire race? It needn’t, for a moment, be doubted whether the sins already committed could at all be wiped off, in this manner, without the sinners getting into the clutches of Yama's hordes, determined to put the former through the tortures of hell. Well, here is the magic,, namely, spelling the word “Keśava”, which at once keeps Yama’s agents out of bounds and there is no question of their coming anywhere near us. Here is a single remedy, the panacea for all ills and evils, unlike the scriptural prescription of different methods of atonement of different types of sins.

\(ii\) Yama is, no doubt, the agent appointed by God for punishing the law-breakers, the laws being the Śāstras, with their decrees and injunctions. But those, who are engaged in the service of the Lord in His worshippable form, wrapt in ecstatic contemplation of the Lord exquisitely manifest in His image, will certainly be out of the purview of Yama’s punishment, if they departed from the punctual and rigid observance of the Śāstraic routine. This was clearly elucidated by the illustrious Bhaṭṭārya. one evening when Lord Raṅganātha was moving by the river-side, during one of the annual festivals, entailing excursions outside the holy city of Araṅkam. When a few of the Brahmin attendants expressed their intention to retire for performing the evening prayer (Sandhyāvandhana), Bhaṭṭārya observed:

“Brothers, in our present occupation, namely, absorbing attention to our Sovereign Lord Himself, of exquisite charm, visibly present here, if we skip the religious routine, just this evening, know that we are occupied with the Law-Giver Himself. Surely, Yama will not construe this as a transgression and accuse us as lawbreakers, liable for punishment. Supposing a king holds court to hear reports of the financial working of the various departments of his kingdom and, in the course of hearing, adverse mention is made of a favourite of the king. If the king orders the reporter to skip over that particular item and pass on to the next, will the reporter thenceforward dare to revert to that item, deliberately skipped over by the king, and point the accusing finger at the king’s favourite? When we are here, busy with the king directly, what other business can draw us away from Him? All ordinary law is set aside before the Lord Who is the highest Law Himself”.


