+++
title = "1201 Pasuram 10.2.6"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

அமரராய்த் திரிகின்றார்கட்கு ஆதிசேர் அனந்தபுரத்து  
அமரர்கோன் அர்ச்சிக்கின்று அங்குஅகப்பணி செய்வர் விண்ணோர்  
நமர்களோ! சொல்லக்கேள்மின் நாமும்போய் நணுகவேண்டும்  
குமரனார் தாதை துன்பம் துடைத்த கோவிந்தனாரே

amararāyt tirikiṉṟārkaṭku āticēr aṉantapurattu  
amararkōṉ arccikkiṉṟu aṅkuakappaṇi ceyvar viṇṇōr  
namarkaḷō! collakkēḷmiṉ nāmumpōy naṇukavēṇṭum  
kumaraṉār tātai tuṉpam tuṭaitta kōvintaṉārē

**English translation of verse 10.2.6:**

Worship the Lord, Who the distress did dispel  
Of Kumaraṉ's sire, Chief of the Immortals chuckling with pride,  
Who in holy Aṉantapuram does lovingly dwell,  
Sēṉāpathi Āḻvāṉ, as the head of the Celestials, does lead  
And him others from Heaven do ably support;  
Ye, my men, listen to what f state,  
We too shall that holy band join and adore the Lord.

**Notes:**

\(i\) Holy Aṉantapuram is to be coveted even more than Heaven, inasmuch as the former attracts even the exalted denizens of Heaven who move down from those dizzy heights and serve the Lord enshrined here. Here then is a pilgrim centre, where parity is enjoyed by the ‘Nitya Sūrīs’ of Heaven and the ‘Nitya Samsārīs’, down here. The Lord’s face, navel and feet are seen through three separate doors of the Sanctum, catering to three different categories of worshippers, namely, (1) the band of Celestials headed by Sēṉāpathi Āḻvāṉ to whom the Lord reveals His face through the doorway at one end, (2) Brahmā and other Devas who catch sight of the Lord’s navel region through the passage in the middle and (3) people of this world, who worship the Lord’s lovely pair of feet through the doorway at the other end. vide aphorism 183 of ‘Ācārya Hṛdayam’. As a matter of fact, Sēṉāpathi Āḻvāṉ, who has been assigned the portfolio of administration of the Universe, has to necessarily look at the Lord’s face and obtain His approval for the proposals submitted by him, either by word of mouth or merely by His gestures and looks. Again, Brahmā, who emerged from the Lord’s navel, sees the Lord’s navel region at Aṉantapuram through the middle gate. We, worldlings, seeking refuge at the Lord’s feet, see His feet through the end-gate.

\(ii\) Surely, the Lord, Who dispels the distress of even Śiva, the father of Subrahmaṇya and the other Devas, full of egotism, will certainly deliver us, the selfless lovers.


