+++
title = "1206 Pasuram 10.2.11"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

அந்தம்இல் புகழ் அனந்தபுர நகர் ஆதிதன்னைக்  
கொந்துஅலர் பொழில் குருகூர் மாறன் சொல்ஆயிரத்துள்  
ஐந்தினோடு ஐந்தும்வல்லார் அணைவர்போய் அமர்உலகில்  
பைந்தொடி மடந்தையர்தம் வேய்மரு தோள்இணையே. (2)

antamil pukaḻ aṉantapura nakar ātitaṉṉaik  
kontualar poḻil kurukūr māṟaṉ colāyirattuḷ  
aintiṉōṭu aintumvallār aṇaivarpōy amarulakil  
paintoṭi maṭantaiyartam vēymaru tōḷiṇaiyē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.2.11:**

Those that can recite these songs ten,  
Out of the thousand composed by Caṭakōpaṉ  
Of Kurukūr, with orchids fine, adoring the Lord of everlasting fame,  
Who has His abode in lovely Aṉantapuram,  
Shall attain Heaven at the end of the current span  
And there be entertained by the damsels fine  
With bamboo-like arms, bedecked with jewels nice.

**Notes:**

\(i\) In the preceding song, the Āḻvār extolled those who worship the Lord at Aṉantapuram, as men of undying fame; now, he is referring to the Lord as of undying fame. Ever as the pious men of this world have surpassed the fame of the denizens of Heaven, the Lord, in His worshippable Form in this abode, excels His own transcendent glory in the High Heaven. Whereas all those, in the high Heaven, have the true knowledge of their essential nature as the Lord’s exclusive vassals, totally dependent on Him, here, in this abode, there are myriads of men straying away from God, oblivious of their true relationship with Him. Does it not, therefore, redound to His great glory, right here, when He tries to wean away the errant mortals, gone astray? But for His tender solicitude and redemptive grace, these poor souls would be drifting farther and farther away from Him.

\(ii\) What is alluded to, in this end-song, as the benefit accruing from the recital of this decad, is not the sensual pleasure enjoyable by the chanters on their attaining Heaven through the ‘Apsaras’, the lovely damsels over there. Indeed, there is no touch of carnality, the skin-deep variety of entertainment, in that blissful land and the entertainment offered by these damsels who play host to the new-comers to Heaven, is the same as that referred to later in X-9-6, 7 and 10,


