+++
title = "1225 Pasuram 10.4.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

தலைமேல் புனைந்தேன் சரணங்கள் ஆலின்-  
இலைமேல் துயின்றான் இமையோர் வணங்க  
மலைமேல்தான் நின்று என்மனத்துள் இருந்தானை  
நிலைபேர்க்கல்ஆகாமை நிச்சித்துஇருந்தேனே.

talaimēl puṉaintēṉ caraṇaṅkaḷ āliṉ-  
ilaimēl tuyiṉṟāṉ imaiyōr vaṇaṅka  
malaimēltāṉ niṉṟu eṉmaṉattuḷ iruntāṉai  
nilaipērkkalākāmai niccittuiruntēṉē.

**English translation of verse 10.4.4:**

Adorned have I my head with the feet of the Lord,  
Who did on a fig-leaf repose, Who is by Celestials adored,  
Right here, in Mount Tiruvēṅkaṭam, where He just stands,  
For Him to secure a berth in my mind,  
Where I am sure He now remains firmly enshrined.

**Notes:**

\(i\) the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") recounts the manner in which the Lord contrived to get Himself lodged firmly in his heart and how complacent He feels after reaching His coveted destination. The Lord, Who reposed on a tender fig-leaf over the vast expanse of water, stepped on to Mount Tiruvēṅkaṭam, the spring-board from which He jumped into the Āḻvār’s heart. When He sustained aḷḷ the worlds with their contents inside His stomach, resting on the fig-leaf, He was all alone and nobody knew the manner and extent of His benefaction. And so, He hit upon a plan by which He could demonstrate to all the worlds, His great benevolence and omnipotence, amazing simplicity and easy accessibility. It was in pursuance of this plan that He repaired to Mount Tiruvēṅkaṭam, along with the [Nitya](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nitya definitions") [Sūrīs](/definition/suri#history "show Sūrīs definitions"), the Eternal heroes in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"). Once this was accomplished, He moved into the Āḻvār’s heart-region and established Himself firmly therein, the ultimate destination of His long travail. Here then is the beautifully phased programme of the Lord’s journey to the Āḻvār’s heartcentre, which would have just given way under excessive joy, had the Lord stepped on to it straightway.

As a matter of fact, the Lord’s attachment to the Gnostic’s ([Jñāni](/definition/jnanin#vaishnavism "show Jñāni definitions")’s) physical form even surpasses His love for the pilgrim centres where He has condescended to shed His grace on His votaries, in ‘[Arca](/definition/arca#history "show Arca definitions")’ (worshippable, iconic Form). This is quite understandable, seeing that the very purpose of His manifestation in ‘Arca’ Form is only to get hold of His subjects, by some means or the other. And when He gets His [catch](/definition/catching#history "show catch definitions") all right and it is a big [haul](/definition/haul#history "show haul definitions") at that, as in the case of the Āḻvār, His gratification knows no bounds. The Lord’s stay in the pilgrim centres is, therefore, not an end in itself but only a means for the reclamation of His subjects, His ultimate destination being the heart-centre of the spiritually regenerated subjects. Once the destination is reached, the means employed for reaching it get relegated to a position of secondary importance. It is then the turn of a devotee like Pēyāḻvār to request the Lord not to relax His interest in the pilgrim centres, which operate as the spring-board whence the Lord could reach His devotees, His ultimate destination. It is now a case of the Lord loving the pilgrim centres, firstly, as places adored by His devotees and secondly, out of gratitude to those centres for helping Him to reclaim His subjects, by turning them God-ward.

\(ii\) It is with such a deep yearning that the Lord is firmly ensconced in the heart-centre of the Saint. There is no question of His getting out on His own. Of course, the Āḻvār, endowed with a mind soaked in God-love, will do nothing to unsettle the Lord from His coveted position inside his heart and dislodge Him.


