+++
title = "1235 Pasuram 10.5.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

கண்ணன் கழல்இணை நண்ணும் மனம்உடையீர்  
எண்ணும் திருநாமம் திண்ணம் நாரணமே. (2)

kaṇṇaṉ kaḻaliṇai naṇṇum maṉamuṭaiyīr  
eṇṇum tirunāmam tiṇṇam nāraṇamē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.5.1:**

Nāraṇam [Nāraṇa] is the holy name You have to meditate upon;  
Besides this, let me affirm, there’s none to reckon,  
Take note, Ye, men, yearning for the lovely pair of feet  
Of Kaṇṇaṉ, our Lord, [Who is easily accessible to the devout].

**Notes:**

In 1-2-10, the Āḻvār taught his fellow-beings how to pray, by giving out the substance of the eight-syllabled ‘Tirumantra’. The Subject of this ‘Mantra’ is none other than the Supreme Lord, Nārāyaṇa (used, in short form, as Nāraṇam), the abode of countless souls, of vast excellence and an inexhaustible fountain of bliss. That Nārāyaṇa is the sole Refuge unto those who are desirous of attaining Him, is now re-iterated by the Āḻvār in his valedictory address to the world, at large. No other qualification is needed than the yearning to attain the Lord’s lovely pair of feet, for chanting this holy name of His, the great Mantra. As a matter of fact, even the highest degree of attainments, one can have with the utmost exertion, will by-no-means be commensurate with the end in view, namely, enjoyment of heavenly bliss in that Eternal Land whence there is no returning. So then, the only qualification, if at all, is the earnest desire, on the part of the votary, to achieve this highest goal and the one, thus qualified, becomes eligible to chant the holy name, Nārāyaṇa, which delivers the goods, all right. Even so, the Lord is referred to, as Kṛṣṇa in this song, so as to attract the subjects by virtue of His amazing simplicity, instead of scaring them away by emphasising His Supremacy and Sovereignty over the entire universe, His overlordship.


