+++
title = "1240 Pasuram 10.5.6"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

மேயான் வேங்கடம் காயாமலர் வண்ணன்  
பேயார் முலைஉண்ட வாயான் மாதவனே. (2)

mēyāṉ vēṅkaṭam kāyāmalar vaṇṇaṉ  
pēyār mulaiuṇṭa vāyāṉ mātavaṉē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.5.6:**

Mātavaṉ, of the lovely complexion of lily flower,  
Who did the devil’s (Pūthanā’s) breasts gather  
And suck them out to death, is the one  
Who in (Mount) Vēṅkaṭam stays on.

**Notes:**

In the preceding song, the Āḻvār had asked the men around, to seek out the Supreme Lord and worship Him daily with flowers and sing His glorious names. And now, he tells them that the Lord is not that cold, icy abstract thing, formless and invisible, as some would say, but is easily accessible, atop Mount Tiruvēṅkaṭam, exhibiting His resplendent Form of exquisite charm. As already elucidated by the Āḻvār in X-4-4, the Lord takes up position in pilgrim centres like Mount Tiruvēṅkaṭam, only to step on to the heart-region of His devotees. The Lord enthrals the votaries through His (worshippable) Iconic Form of extraordinary charm. As Nampiḷḷai puts it, *even a tiny twig will come under the magic spell of this charm and cannot resist the urge to serve Him*, an urge, deep and irresistible and a mere twig though, it just cannot exist without serving Him. What is even more attractive is the wholesome conjunction of the Lord with the Divine Mother, as Mādhava, bearing Māhalakṣmī on His winsome chest, a highly profitable combination from the point of view of emancipation of the errant supplicants, with countless transgressions.


