+++
title = "1241 Pasuram 10.5.7"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

மாதவன் என்றுஎன்று ஓத வல்லீரேல்  
தீதுஒன்றும் அடையா ஏதம் சாராவே.

mātavaṉ eṉṟueṉṟu ōta vallīrēl  
tītuoṉṟum aṭaiyā ētam cārāvē.

**English translation of verse 10.5.7:**

Past sins shall not affect you at all  
Nor shall sins taint you, in future, as well,  
If that name, ‘Mātavaṉ’ you’d but spell

**Notes:**

\(i\) Remarkable indeed is the magnitude of the Āḻvār’s compassion for the fellow-beings. Here is the Āḻvār’s recipe for those who are unable to seek out the Lord, in His worshippable image Form, and worship Him daily with choice flowers either at Tiruvēṅkaṭam or any other pilgrim centre. It will suffice if they chant ‘Dvaya’, the gem of a mantra, a couplet, the first part of which enjoins that the individual soul should seek refuge at the lotus feet of the Lord through the mediation of Mahālakṣmī while the second stipulates that service unto them both, in a state of conjunction, should be prayed for. Again, spelling the name, ‘Mādhava’, denoting this holy combination, need not be of one’s own longing to pronounce it; it would be enough if some one chanted it and these people merely followed suit.

\(ii\) The holy name (Tirumantra) will, by itself, confer on its chanters salvation, and ‘Dvaya’, the gem of a mantra, would likewise procure salvation for those who utter it. Well, in that name, ‘Mādhava’, there is a combination of both ‘Tirumantra’ and ‘Dvaya’, with redoubled efficiency, keeping the votaries above all sins, past, present and future.


