+++
title = "1243 Pasuram 10.5.9"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

அமரர்க்கு அரியானை தமர்கட்கு எளியானை  
அமரத் தொழுவார்கட்கு அமரா வினைகளே.

amararkku ariyāṉai tamarkaṭku eḷiyāṉai  
amarat toḻuvārkaṭku [amarā](/definition/amara#history "show amarā definitions") viṉaikaḷē.

**English translation of verse 10.5.9:**

They that are in God-love soaked and adore  
The Lord Supreme, beyond the reach of even [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions") and others,  
But unto the devout easily accessible,  
Are indeed out of reach of ills and evils.

**Notes:**

The Lord is, no [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), the Great Giver, rather the one and only Giver and there is no gift beyond Him. He is known as ‘Arthidhārtha paridhāna dhīkṣitha’. The ‘Ithihāsas’ and [Purāṇas](/definition/purana#vaishnavism "show Purāṇas definitions") contain frequent references to the Lord’s benevolence unto the [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions") vis-a-vis the Asuras, on whom the Lord inflicts [sufferings](/definition/suffering#history "show sufferings definitions"). The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") has also alluded to this fact, quite often, in this hymnal itself. And yet, the Lord makes Himself scarce, that is, He does not reveal His glory and grandeur to the Devas, their exaltation notwithstanding, because they are only self-seekers, always wanting the Lord to cater to their selfish ends. Even Brahmā, who emerged from the lotus flower which sprouted from the Lord’s navel, couldn’t [cash](/definition/cash#history "show cash definitions") in that unique position of advantage and perceive the Lord’s prowess, His greatness and grandeur, to any appreciable extent. On the other hand, the Lord is easily accessible to the devout, whose love unto Him is one of [purity](/definition/purity#history "show purity definitions") and virginity, with no strings attached. Love rendered to God for God’s sake, culminating in benediction or glorification of God, carries with it the highest reward, namely, the possession of God Himself. This fact is brought home, in this song.


