+++
title = "1247 Introduction to Section 10.6"

+++
As the great Nampiḷḷai would put it, in his inimitable diction, the stage has now been reached when the Lord is in hot pursuit of the Āḻvār. The position hitherto, commencing from the opening song of the Āḻvār’s first hymnal (Tiruviruttam) was, however, just the reverse, that is, the Āḻvār was seeking out the Lord and pursuing Him doggedly. The Āḻvār, who was the supplicant before, is now vigorously sought after by the Lord Whose love for the great savant knows no bounds, vide the 3rd song of this decad, which highlights the speed with which the Lord wishes to take the Āḻvār, to the heavenly abode. In the exuberance of His love for the Āḻvār, the Lord would even think in terms of lifting him bodily to heaven. The Āḻvār had to plead with the Lord to give up His overambitious project and he advised Him not to defile the sanctity of Heaven by introducing therein his physical body. What is even more astounding is the Lord’s extreme fascination for the Āḻvār’s physical body, the last of the staggering number of bodies, tenanted by him, that led Him on to seek the Āḻvār’s permission to enjoy his body, limb by limb. For this purpose, the Lord would assume a number of Forms, as He did during the famous ‘*RĀSAKRĪḌĀ*’ dance with the damsels of Vrindāvan and again, when He married sixteen thousand pretty ladies and led the life of a typical householder with each one of them, all at once, in the holy island of Dvāraka, a township raised by Lord Kṛṣṇa Himself from the bed of the Sea.

If we probed a little into the relative stance of the Āḻvār and the Lord, it can easily be discovered that the Āḻvār’s yearning for the Lord dwindles down to insignificant proportions, as compared to the all-conquering love, which the Lord bears for him. Actually, this has already been succinctly brought out in IX-6-10. Well, if the Lord bore such inordinate love for the Āḻvār, defying description, and still kept him on in this abode, it was only in the larger interests of mankind, as a whole, their uplift through the Āḻvār’s scintillating, soul-stirring songs. Now that this purpose has been achieved, the Lord can no longer resist the deep urge in Him to expedite the Āḻvār’s uplift to Heaven. As a matter of fact, the Lord is already well on the move, having come to nearby Tiruvāṭṭāṟu, the vantage point for lifting the Āḻvār to Heaven. Of course, the Lord could as well confer on the Āḻvār, heavenly bliss, right here, but, in the very nature of things, this land of dark nescience is not the place for the Lord’s uninterrupted enjoyment of the Āḻvār. Even so, He would want the Āḻvār to command Him to take him to Heaven. In other words, He wishes to confer on him heavenly bliss and beatitude, in a spirit of service unto the Āḻvār and not as a matter of grace.

The Āḻvār is, however, not the one who would make any gesture of the kind which militates against his creed of complete self-abnegation, resulting from his total dependence on the Lord Whose will is paramount. Put in a nutshell, the position is like this:

> *Lord to Āḻvār*: “Oh, Āḻvār, won’t you beckon Me to take you on to the > heavenly abode?”

The Āḻvār ponders within himself: “How amazing and how incredible that the Sovereign Lord seeks my permission and wants to play a subordinate role! Shall I not meet my fellow-men and talk to them about this and make them also appreciate and admire the Lord’s simplicity galore and tender solicitude? But then, these fellows are hardly available to me for sharing my wonderful experience, immersed, as they are, in wordly pleasures. And how about the Lord? Shall I not pour out my mind to the Lord Himself, expatiating on this wonderful gesture of His? Alas! He too is heavily pre-occupied, fiercely concentrating on how best He can expedite my ascent to heaven. Let me, in the last resort, open up a dialogue with my own God-bent mind and impress upon it the amazing simplicity of the Supreme Lord, the immensity of the love borne by Him unto me and the resultant benefits accrued to me”.

In short, the Āḻvār had hitherto looked upon the Lord, as the sole ordainer, of unbridled independence, but now he realises that the Lord is but the abject servant of His devotees and gives vent to his hearty appreciation of the Lord’s tender solicitude and amazing simplicity.


