+++
title = "1249 Pasuram 10.6.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வாட்டாற்றான் அடிவணங்கி மாஞாலப் பிறப்புஅறுப்பான்  
கேட்டாயே மடநெஞ்சே! கேசவன் எம் பெருமானைப்  
பாட்டுஆய பலபாடி பழவினைகள் பற்றுஅறுத்து  
நாட்டாரோடு இயல்வுஒழிந்து நாரணனை நண்ணினமே.

vāṭṭāṟṟāṉ aṭivaṇaṅki māñālap piṟappuaṟuppāṉ  
kēṭṭāyē maṭaneñcē! kēcavaṉ em perumāṉaip  
pāṭṭuāya palapāṭi paḻaviṉaikaḷ paṟṟuaṟuttu  
nāṭṭārōṭu iyalvuoḻintu nāraṇaṉai naṇṇiṉamē.

**English translation of verse 10.6.2:**

Many indeed are the favours on us conferred;  
Better take note, my docile mind, our contacts were severed  
With the world around and gone are our age-long sins,  
To cut our moorings with this land of dark nescience,  
[Thro](/definition/thro#history "show Thro definitions")’ many a song we did laud Kēcavaṉ, our Lord,  
The lovely feet of our Sire in Tiruvāṭṭāṟu, we adored  
And Nāraṇaṉ, Our Liege-Lord, we have attained.

**Notes:**

This song is but a continuation of the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions")’s dialogue with his mind, Questioned by the mind as to why the Āḻvār gloated over the grace of the Lord, as if it was something extra-ordinary, instead of looking upon it merely as the Lord’s response, rather belated, to the request made by him, right from the opening song of his very first hymnal, namely, [Tiruviruttam](/definition/tiruviruttam#vaishnavism "show Tiruviruttam definitions"), the Āḻvār disabuses it of its wrong notions, Well, the Āḻvār had merely prayed for deliverance from this foul body, purged of all his grossness, while what actually materialised, due to the influx of the Lord’s extraordinary grace, is, as listed in this song, namely, eradication of his age-long sins, lauding the Lord through a spate of songs, comprised in his four hymnals, severance of contacts with the worldlings and attainment of Lord Śrīman [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions"). The Āḻvār would want his mind to take due note of all these and acknowledge the immensity of the Lord’s bounty. By exhibiting the enthralling charm of His locks of [hair](/definition/hair#history "show hair definitions"), the Lord attracted the Āḻvār and the latter poured out his heart unto Him through many a scintillating song. Was it not the Lord’s unique grace which made the Āḻvār laud Him, instead of [falling](/definition/falling#history "show falling definitions") in [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") with his fellow-beings, in this land, rampant with rant and adulation, glorifying the frail humans, with all their dirt and devilry? The sycophants themselves are fully aware of the unworthiness of the men they adore and yet they indulge in such unpardonable white lies, all for the sake of petty gains and eking out their livelihood. And what more? To the list of favours conferred on the Āḻvār has also been added his complete severance from the men around, steeped miserably in the erroneous notions of ‘I-ness’ and ‘My-ness’. And then, the finale comes, namely, the attainment of the Eternal Friend and Relation, the Supreme Lord—Śrīman Nārāyaṇa, to the rigid and total exclusion of those parasites, the artificial, earthly relations.


