+++
title = "1250 Pasuram 10.6.3"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

நண்ணினம் நாராயணனை நாமங்கள் பலசொல்லி  
மண்உலகில் வளம்மிக்க வாட்டாற்றான் வந்துஇன்று  
விண்உலகம் தருவானாய் விரைகின்றான் விதிவகையே  
எண்ணின வாறுகா இக்கருமங்கள் என்நெஞ்சே!

naṇṇiṉam nārāyaṇaṉai nāmaṅkaḷ palacolli  
maṇulakil vaḷammikka vāṭṭāṟṟāṉ vantuiṉṟu  
viṇulakam taruvāṉāy viraikiṉṟāṉ vitivakaiyē  
eṇṇiṉa vāṟukā ikkarumaṅkaḷ eṉneñcē!

**English translation of verse 10.6.3:**

Nārāyaṇa, our Benefactor great, we have attained,  
Chanting many a holy name of His, my friendly mind,  
The benign qualities of my Lord beam forth in this land,  
And stationed in Tiruvāṭṭāṟu, He awaits my command  
To grant me the Heaven and that too, with great speed;  
Well, these deeds of His do my expectations far exceed!

**Notes:**

\(i\) The Āḻvār’s joyous rapport with his mind continues. He is amazed at the Lord’s overwhelming grace, far exceeding all his earlier expectations.

\(ii\) As the Āḻvār contemplated on the manifestations of the Lord, in His worshippable Form at the various pilgrim centres, he was particularly impressed by a special auspicious attribute, graciously displayed by the Lord in each centre and this was naturally meditated upon by Him. The illustrious author of ‘Ācārya Hṛdayam’ has indeed high-lighted this aspect. In aphorism 184 of the said work, it has been brought out that the Lord at Tiruvāṭṭāṟu has been presented to us by Nammāḻvār, as one who subserves His devotees, even while conferring on them the heavenly bliss. Oh, what a gift and in what manner served! As Nampiḷḷai puts it, in his soul-stirring diction, it is not as if the Lord just accommodates the Āḻvār, in that Eternal Land peopled by the Celestials, and puts him as one more denizen of the exalted Heaven; the Lord simply gifts away the entire Heaven to the Āḻvār. What is more, He deems it a matter of great condescension, on the part of the Āḻvār, if he accepted the gift. The Lord’s anxiety, in this context, arises from the fact that He is in no mood to just lift the Āḻvār along but He would do so only at the Āḻvār’s own bidding, indicating the manner in which he should be conducted by the Lord and assigning Him quite a few tasks to be performed *en route*.

Well, seeing that the creature is but the Creator’s great gain, the latter’s anxiety to reclaim the former, seeking his willing co-operation is quite understandable. Again, in the work-a-day world, when we seek the good offices of some one for the accomplishment of a particular task, we find that his actual performance falls far short of our expectations and so, we have to do our own bit also. But that is not the case with the Lord whose bounty surpasses even our dreamy expectations.


