+++
title = "1251 Pasuram 10.6.4"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

என்நெஞ்சத்து உள்இருந்து இங்கு இரும்தமிழ்நூல்இவைமொழிந்து  
வல்நெஞ்சத்து இரணியனை மார்வு இடந்த வாட்டாற்றான்  
மன்னஞ்ச பாரதத்துப் பாண்டவர்க்காப் படை தொட்டான்  
நல்நெஞ்சே! நம்பெருமான் நமக்கு அருள்தான் செய்வானே.

eṉneñcattu uḷiruntu iṅku irumtamiḻnūlivaimoḻintu  
valneñcattu iraṇiyaṉai mārvu iṭanta vāṭṭāṟṟāṉ  
maṉṉañca pāratattup pāṇṭavarkkāp paṭai toṭṭāṉ  
nalneñcē! namperumāṉ namakku aruḷtāṉ ceyvāṉē.

**English translation of verse 10.6.4:**

Note, Ye, my sweet mind, the Lord, in Tiruvāṭṭāṟu enshrined,  
Tore into twain Iraṇyaṉ’s heart of steel and, in the war  
Of Mahābhārata, took up arms for Pāṇṭavas’ sake, a terror  
He was unto the kings ranged opposite; firmly fixed in my mind,  
These fine songs were by Him sung and heaps He on me evermore  
Favours fresh, indeed an act of grace galore!

**Notes:**

\(i\) The great Ordainer that the Supreme Lord is, He has been depicted in songs one and three of this decad, as the ordained, carrying out the dictates of the Āḻvār or at least wanting to do so. The present song dispels the doubt, possibly entertained by some persons as to whether the Sovereign Lord would ever descend to such depths and play a subservient role. Did not the Lord keep Himself ready all over the place, as Narasiṅga, so as to respond immediately to the call of His young devotee, Prahlāda? And then, He served the Pāṇṭavas in ever so many ways and did the meanest of jobs, such as running errands, driving Arjuna’s chariot and so on.

\(ii\) The Āḻvār’s mind, steeped, for ages, in sensual pleasures, was taken possession of. by the Lord, at the appropriate moment, and there He established Himself firmly lest He should be denied re-entry into the Āḻvārs mind, once He got out of it. Well, what was all this herculean effort for, on the part of the Lord? Here is the answer: It was from this vantage point that the Lord sang ‘Tiruvāymoḻi’, these songs, *par excellence*, chaste and elegant, syntactically perfect, setting the pace for future grammarians to emulate and enjoy. The authorship of ‘Tiruvāymoḻi’ is thus clearly ascribed to the Lord Himself.

\(iii\) Lord Kṛṣṇa controlled and conducted the military strategy of the great war of Mahābhāratha, at every turn. Once, it so happened that the horses of the Pāṇḍava army were almost dying of thirst and there was no water near at hand. The Lord, who could divine the presence of water even in rocky soil, drew forth plentiful supply of water from the bosom of the earth and retrieved what seemed to be a forlorn situation beyond remedy. Naturally, the Lord’s presence on the battlefield, as a partisan of the Pāṇḍavas, ever ready to surmount difficulties of whatever magnitude, struck terror in the hearts of the kings ranged on the side of the Kauravas, and they sank down, with diffidence.


