+++
title = "1255 Pasuram 10.6.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

மெய்ந்நின்று கமழ்துளவ விரைஏறு திருமுடியன்  
கைந்நின்ற சக்கரத்தன் கருதும்இடம் பொருதுபுனல்  
மைந்நின்ற வரைபோலும் திருஉருவ வாட்டாற்றாற்கு  
எந்நன்றி செய்தேனா என்நெஞ்சில் திகழ்வதுவே?

meynniṉṟu kamaḻtuḷava viraiēṟu tirumuṭiyaṉ  
kainniṉṟa cakkarattaṉ karutumiṭam porutupuṉal  
mainniṉṟa varaipōlum tiruuruva vāṭṭāṟṟāṟku  
ennaṉṟi ceytēṉā eṉneñcil tikaḻvatuvē?

**English translation of verse 10.6.8:**

Oh, what is the merit in me, that in my heart beams the Lord  
Who stays in Tiruvāṭṭāṟu, like unto a mountain of [emerald](/definition/emerald#history "show emerald definitions"),  
Wearing on His crown, tuḷaci, full of fragrance that ever lasts  
On my person, Who the warring discus wields that darts  
At the target the Lord intends and gets back as victor smart?

**Notes:**

\(i\) There was hardly any merit in him as far as the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") could scan and yet the Lord has chosen to shower on him a plethora of benefits. No wonder then, the Āḻvār is amazed at the overwhelming grace of the Lord, bestowed on him with sweet spontaniety.

\(ii\) The text, in this song, describing the pervasive fragrance of the tuḻaci garland worn by the Lord, lends itself to more than one interpretation. It could mean that the sweet fragrance of the tuḻaci, worn on the Lord’s crown, permeates the entire body of the Āḻvār by virtue of the Lord’s entry into his heart. It could also mean that the aroma of the tuḷaci migrated upwards from the Lord’s body and stuck to His crown.

It is indeed interesting that the Lord’s discus performs its job with push-button precision; when the thought of punishing an adversary just crosses the Lord’s mind, it is as good as pressing the button, signalling to the discus the target in question. The discus darts with lightning speed, hits the target, all right and gets back to the Lord.

\(iii\) Unable to discover any good in him even by extra-liberal standards, not even anything bearing the semblance thereof, the Āḻvār is aghast with wonder at the Lord’s great gesture.


