+++
title = "1260 Introduction to Section 10.7"

+++
We saw the Āḻvār bursting with joy in the last decad. The Lord, Who stuck fast to the Āḻvār’s heart, would now want to get hold of the Āḻvār’s entire physical frame, limb by limb, like unto the flies swarming, in and around the jack-fruit. Well, what is the Lord’s fascination for this elemental body, which the gnostics (Jñānis) have no hesitation in condemning as foul and are ready to give up, any moment? The sweet aroma of spiritual awakening, emanating from the Jñāni’s body is indeed very pleasing to the Lord, Who, therefore, covets him and adores him, in that mortal frame, with all its dirt and stench, like unto the erotic lover doting on the body of his beloved, unmindful of its drawbacks. Do not the ladies wear, on their locks, the fragrant root, dug out of the earth, without shaking off the earthen particles of dust, lest it should diminish the fragrance?

In the case of the Āḻvār, the Lord bore unlimited love for him and He was even thinking in terms of lifting him up to heaven, with this very body. The Āḻvār, who got scent of this extraordinary thinking on the part of the Lord, even apprehended that the prolongation of his stay in this abode, in his material body, might be due to the misplaced affection of the Lord for his physical frame. The Āḻvār, therefore, realised the imperative need of his disabusing the Lord of his notions, in this regard. As a matter of fact, the Āḻvār is now free to dictate terms to the Lord in accordance with the latter’s ardent desire to serve the former. The Āḻvār could, therefore, advise the Lord to do certain things and desist from doing certain other things. In the latter category would fall the Lord’s contemplated move to lift the Āḻvār bodily to Heaven. Cornered thus, the Lord abandoned His over-ambitious project, submitting to the Āḻvār’s will. That the Sovereign Lord should desist from putting through His cherished desires, purely in deference to the Āḻvār’s mandatory injunction, excites the Āḻvār’s admiration of the Lord’s amazing simplicity and tender solicitude, ail the more. Literally lost in contemplation of these extraordinary traits of the Lord, the Āḻvār could regain his normal composure only after quite some length of time. Therefore it is, he puts others on their guard in this decad, lest they should also fare likewise, meditating on the Lord’s amazing simplicity and loving condescension. This is just like men who have struggled through deep waters and got ashore, cautioning others wading through the waters against the treacherous pit-falls which they would do well to avoid, thus placing before others the benefit of their own experience. Actually, the Āḻvār is warning likeminded poets, steeped in the selfless enjoyment of the Lord’s auspicious traits, not to get involved in these enthralling traits of the Lord but just skip over them, lest they should also be ensnared and get bogged down, as he did.

The Lord, who exhibited such a great predilection for the Āḻvār’s physical frame, is depicted, in this decad, as the One enshrined in Tirumāliruñcōlai (in Tamil Nāḍu). Omniscient though, the Lord’s love for the Jñāni is so deep and intense that He dotes on the physical frame of the Jñāni, which the latter detests, as foul and despicable. The Lord has to be weaned away from His misplaced blandishment of the Jñāni’s body by the latter’s stern advice to desist from it, seeing that it is made up of the elements and is full of dirt and stench and the Lord shall not, therefore, defile and desecrate the exalted Heaven by introducing therein his physical body, vide aphorism 185 of ‘Ācārya Hṛdayam’, characterising the Lord at Tirumāliruñcōlai as the one doting on the the Jñāni’s despicable body.


