+++
title = "1265 Pasuram 10.7.5"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

நண்ணா அசுரர் நலிவுஎய்த நல்ல அமரர் பொலிவுஎய்த  
எண்ணாதனகள் எண்ணும் நல்முனிவர் இன்பம் தலைசிறப்ப  
பண்ணார் பாடலின் கவிகள் யானாய்த் தன்னைத் தான்பாடி  
தென்னா என்னும் என்அம்மான் திருமாலிருஞ்சோலையானே.

naṇṇā acurar nalivueyta nalla amarar polivueyta  
eṇṇātaṉakaḷ eṇṇum nalmuṉivar iṉpam talaiciṟappa  
paṇṇār pāṭaliṉ kavikaḷ yāṉāyt taṉṉait tāṉpāṭi  
teṉṉā eṉṉum eṉammāṉ tirumāliruñcōlaiyāṉē.

**English translation of verse 10.7.5:**

My Sire, Who into me dissolved and sang songs, sweet and chaste,  
Humming joyfully, which sealed the hostile Asuras’ fate  
But made the friendly Devas exult, which sent into raptures  
The meditative sages who keep wishing the expansion evermore,  
Of His auspicious attributes and glory great,  
Is the One who has Tirumāliruñcōlai, as His habitat.

**Notes:**

\(i\) “What a great connoisseur and how deeply interested!” exclaims the Āḻvār, when he sees the Lord who mingled with him and made him sing this great hymnal of Tiruvāymoḻi, humming with joy, as He listened to these songs.

\(ii\) The friendly Devas flourish while the Asuras, hostile and ungodly, perish, as a result of the Lord‘s incarnations. The same results are achieved by Tiruvāymoḻi also. The Lord’s devotees prosper by learning and chanting Tiruvāymoḻi while the ungodly heretics get badly exposed by this soul-stirring hymnal, cutting across their ill-conceived tenets, their false doctrines and foul rhetoric. This is best illustrated by the following episode:

Kṛmikaṇṭa, a Cōḷa king carried a crusade against Vaiṣṇavism. When his little son succeeded the felonious father, he observed, with great feeling, “Alas! what has my father done? How stupid of him to have fancied that Vaiṣṇavism could be wiped out by just demolishing a temple or two! Did he not know that, unlike the dead walls of the temple, Vaiṣṇavism is bounded by the living walls of Tiruvāymoḻi and Rāmāyaṇa, the two impregnable fortresses?”

\(iii\) At a conclave held by the sages, it was felt that there was, as yet, no hymn, which lauded adequately the Lord’s auspicious Form, attributes and cosmic wealth and that they should all pray unto the Lord to get the void duly filled up. These very sages met again after the advent of Tiruvāymoḻi. While they were jubilant that their prayers had been heard and that ‘Tiruvāymoḻi’ was the very thing they had pined for, they found that this great hymnal had covered, *in toto*, the Lord’s attributes, wealth, manifestations etc. They, therefore, wished that the Lord should have many more of these, affording scope for further laudation of them all! Here then is a grand reorientation of their intial trend of thought, which at once proclaims Tiruvāymoḻi’s greatness and grandeur as the laudatory hymnal, *par excellence*.


