+++
title = "1268 Pasuram 10.7.8"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

திருமாலிருஞ்சோலை மலையே திருப்பாற் கடலே என்தலையே  
திருமால்வைகுந்தமே தண் திருவேங்கடமே எனதுஉடலே  
அருமாமாயத்து எனதுஉயிரே மனமே வாக்கே கருமமே  
ஒருமா நொடியும் பிரியான் என் ஊழி முதல்வன் ஒருவனே. (2)

tirumāliruñcōlai malaiyē tiruppāṟ kaṭalē eṉtalaiyē  
tirumālvaikuntamē taṇ tiruvēṅkaṭamē eṉatuuṭalē  
arumāmāyattu eṉatuuyirē maṉamē vākkē karumamē  
orumā noṭiyum piriyāṉ eṉ ūḻi mutalvaṉ oruvaṉē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.7.8:**

The Lord Supreme, the first cause of all things, shall not bear  
Being apart, even for a trice, from my head, held on a par  
With Mount Tirumāliruñcōlai and the Milky Ocean, my physical frame,  
Coveted by Him like the high Heaven and Mount Tiruvēṅkaṭam,  
My soul, badly mixed up with matter, my thought, word and deed.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The Āḻvār is amazed at the astounding love exhibited by the Lord unto him, rather every inch of his body, easily the aggregate of the love borne by Him for the sacred centres of front-rank eminence, like Mount Tirumāliruñcōlai, Mount Tiruvēṅkaṭam, the Milky Ocean and the High Heavens (Śrī Vaikuṇṭa). So deep and intense is the Lord’s love that He shall not brook separation from the Āḻvār’s physical frame and each anatomical part thereof, even for a split second.

\(ii\) The text of the song, as in the original, makes it out that the Lord, who lavished all His affections on each of the holy centres, referred to above, bestowed all that love on each one of the Āḻvār’s limbs exclusively. This is precisely how sage Saubhari enjoyed marital bliss with each one of his fifty wives, all at once, assuming as many forms. Each one of the fifty spouses could thus assert that her husband was in her exclusive possession and enjoyment and had nothing to do with any one else.

\(iii\) All things and beings subsist in Him, both in the primordial or the unevolved, unmanifest state as well as in the evolved, manifested condition, not being viable by themselves, otherwise than in conjunction with Him. And now, that very Lord cannot brook even a moment’s separation from the Āḻvār, as if the former subsists in the latter and cannot claim viability, on His own.


