+++
title = "1273 Introduction to Section 10.8"

+++
In the sixth decad of this centum, the Lord was indeed in great hurry to take the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") to [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") but His speed got somewhat arrested, in the last decad, due to His passionate love for the Āḻvār’s physical frame as well and His resultant desire to lift him up bodily to Heaven. The Āḻvār had to do quite a bit of talking and impress upon the Lord, the non-feasibility of his ascent to Heaven, in this physical body and ultimately the Lord had to yield.

And now, when the stage is eventually set for the Āḻvār’s Heaven-bound journey, the Āḻvār intercepts and accosts the Lord as follows:

> “My Lord, how is it that You, Who are now in such great hurry to put > me in Heaven, had coolly allowed me to drift and struggle in this land > of dark nescience, all these days? Pray let me know what precisely are > the underlying reasons for Your age-long indifference and Your present > predilection.” >
> (see the ninth song of this decad).

The Lord was quite aware that the Āḻvār, endowed by Him with knowledge full and complete, was a hard nut to crack and he could effectively counter all His arguments. He, therefore, discreetly kept silent, looking away from the Āḻvār, leaving it to the latter to conclude that it would but be futile to question the ways of the Sovereign Lord with unbridled independence. The Āḻvār was also quick to realise that the present dispensation of the Lord was but the influx of His sweet spontaneous grace, totally unrelated to the merit in him. It is this voluntary grace of the Lord that the Āḻvār dwells upon, in this decad, and rejoices.


