+++
title = "1274 Pasuram 10.8.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

திருமாலிருஞ்சோலை மலை என்றேன் என்ன  
திருமால்வந்து என்நெஞ்சு நிறையப் புகுந்தான்  
குருமா மணிஉந்து புனல் பொன்னித் தென்பால்  
திருமால்சென்று சேர்விடம் தென் திருப்பேரே. (2)

tirumāliruñcōlai malai eṉṟēṉ eṉṉa  
tirumālvantu eṉneñcu niṟaiyap pukuntāṉ  
kurumā maṇiuntu puṉal poṉṉit teṉpāl  
tirumālceṉṟu cērviṭam teṉ tiruppērē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.8.1:**

Lovely Tiruppēr on the south bank of the river Poṉṉi,  
Whose flood waters are with costly rubies laden,  
Is the favourite resort of Tirumāl Who got into my heart  
And spread Himself out in full, when I did just articulate  
The name of Tirumāliruñcōlai, the holy Mount.

**Notes:**

The Āḻvār brings into focus, the Lord’s redemptive grace, shed on the subjects with sweet spontaniety, on the slightest pretext. There is the vicarious reward from the Lord Who treats even the casual mention, by some one, of His names and those of the pilgrim centres, without any religious fervour behind it, as a genuine exercise in chanting these names, with due reverence. The Āḻvār’s lips casually uttered the name of Mount Tirumāliruñcōlai, least aware of its special sanctity and yet, the Lord took his utterance at its face value and entered the Āḻvār’s heart. Even as water finds a small aperture enough to pass through and fill the entire area within, the cloud-hued Lord entered the Āḻvār’s body, mind and soul. So full of the Āḻvār is He now that He has literally become the Āḻvār. The Lord, who coveted the Āḻvār, to such an extent, is the One residing with Śrī Mahālakṣmī, the Divine Mother, at Tiruppēr (Appa Kuṭattāṉ) on the South bank of the river Kāvēri (also known as Poṉṉi). It is this holy conjunction of the Lord and the Divine Mother, that induced the Lord to shed His grace on the Āḻvār, in such super-abundance, overlooking the fact that his mention of the name of Mount Tirumāliruñcōlai was much-too-casual, lip-deep and no more than that.


