+++
title = "1275 Pasuram 10.8.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

பேரே உறைகின்ற பிரான் இன்று வந்து  
பேரேன்என்று என்நெஞ்சு நிறையப் புகுந்தான்  
கார்ஏழ் கடல்ஏழ் மலைஏழ் உலகு உண்டும்  
ஆராவயிற்றானை அடங்கப் பிடித்தேனே.

pērē uṟaikiṉṟa pirāṉ iṉṟu vantu  
pērēṉeṉṟu eṉneñcu niṟaiyap pukuntāṉ  
kārēḻ kaṭalēḻ malaiēḻ ulaku uṇṭum  
ārāvayiṟṟāṉai aṭaṅkap piṭittēṉē.

**English translation of verse 10.8.2:**

My Sire, Who does in Tiruppēr dwell, has now come  
Unto me, with delight immense and in my heart stands firm;  
His fill He hadn’t although he gulped down the [clouds](/definition/cloud#history "show clouds definitions") seven,  
The seven oceans, the seven mountains and the worlds seven,  
But now He feels full, spreading Himself out inside me.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The Supreme Lord did sustain, during the great [deluge](/definition/deluge#history "show deluge definitions"), all the worlds, with their vast contents and all beings, with no exception whatever. Even so, He did not feel full at all. This void was, of course, due to the absence of His contact with the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") and it was only to overcome this deficiency that the Lord stationed Himself along with His Divine Consort at Tiruppēr, on the south bank of the river [Kāvēri](/definition/kaveri#history "show Kāvēri definitions"), a vantage position from which He could enter the Āḻvār’s body, under the slightest pretext.

\(ii\) Even as [Lakṣmī](/definition/lakshmi#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmī definitions"), the lotus-born, gave up the lotus flower, the [seat](/definition/seat#history "show seat definitions") of her [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") and got Herself implanted on the Lord’s chest, repeatedly saying, “I won’t from Him be apart, even for a trice”, the Lord. Who got inside the Āḻvār’s heart, went on saying, “I won’t depart from here”, as if some one had asked Him whether He intended to stay on there or go away after a while.

\(iii\) The Lord’s entry into the Āḻvār’s body, heart and soul, gives one the impression of His full and complete pervasion of the Āḻvār but the fulness actually pertains to the Lord and it is He that has now become full.


