+++
title = "1279 Pasuram 10.8.6"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

திருப்பேர் நகரான் திருமாலிருஞ்சோலைப்  
பொருப்பே உறைகின்றபிரான் இன்றுவந்து  
இருப்பேன் என்று என்நெஞ்சு நிறையப் புகுந்தான்  
விருப்பே பெற்று அமுதம்உண்டு களித்தேனே.

tiruppēr nakarāṉ tirumāliruñcōlaip  
poruppē uṟaikiṉṟapirāṉ iṉṟuvantu  
iruppēṉ eṉṟu eṉneñcu niṟaiyap pukuntāṉ  
viruppē peṟṟu amutamuṇṭu kaḷittēṉē.

**English translation of verse 10.8.6:**

The Lord in Tiruppēr city, Who does also dwell  
In tirumāliruñcōlai and has many such abodes delectable, Has this day got inside me and my heart He does fill,  
Saying that there He will for ever stay; I do revel  
In His love, drinking deep of that nectar insatiable.

**Notes:**

\(i\) Many indeed arc the enchanting abodes of the Lord in His worshippable Form and yet, He has entered the Āḻvār’s heart as if He has nowhere else to go and now only He feels complacent as a ‘Kṛta Kṛtya’ (one who has discharged one’s duty thoroughly), after getting Himself lodged in the Āḻvār’s heart-region.

\(ii\) “*Has this day got inside me*”: Why this day only and not yesterday or the day before? It only shows the dawn of the Lord’s redemptive grace in having designed to come to the Āḻvār and get inside his heart, declaring that He will stay on, for ever, even as the exiled Rāma told Lakṣmaṇa in Pañcavaṭi that they would do well to set up their camp there under cover of the patronising wings of their most beloved Jaṭāyu, the vulture-king.—“Iha vatsyāmi Soumitre! sārdha methena pakṣiṇā.”

\(iii\) “*My heart, He does fill*”: No doubt, the Lord stays inside the heart of every one, as the Internal Controller of one and all, including the demoniac Kaṃsa and Śiśupāla, but His stay inside the Āḻvār’s heart makes aḷḷ the difference. The Lord’s stay inside the Āḻvār is not as a matter of routine duty, as in the case of the generality of His subjects but one bursting with joy and it is this exuberance of God’s love for him that the Āḻvār refers to here and revels in.


