+++
title = "1282 Pasuram 10.8.9"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

இன்று என்னைப் பொருளாக்கி தன்னை என்னுள் வைத்தான்  
அன்று என்னைப் புறம்போகப் புணர்த்தது என் செய்வான்?  
குன்றுஎன்னத் திகழ்மாடங்கள்சூழ் திருப்பேரான்  
ஒன்று எனக்குஅருள்செய்ய உணர்த்தல்உற்றேனே.

iṉṟu eṉṉaip poruḷākki taṉṉai eṉṉuḷ vaittāṉ  
aṉṟu eṉṉaip puṟampōkap puṇarttatu eṉ ceyvāṉ?  
kuṉṟueṉṉat tikaḻmāṭaṅkaḷcūḻ tiruppērāṉ  
oṉṟu eṉakkuaruḷceyya uṇarttaluṟṟēṉē.

**English translation of verse 10.8.9:**

On me, despised and neglected for ages, the Lord has now turned  
His attention and lodged Himself firm in my mind;  
May I ask the Lord at Tiruppēr, by solid mansions bound,  
Why indeed He had shut His eyes on me all these days  
But now sheds on me in super-abundance His grace,  
Would He deign to explain to me the one or the other?

**Notes:**

\(i\) This is the topical song of this decad. The gist of this song has already been set out in the form of a dialogue, opened by the Āḻvār with the Lord, in the preamble to this decad. When asked by his disciple, Nañcīyar, as to what reply the Lord gave to the Āḻvār, Śrī Parāśara Bhaṭṭar would appear to have said;

“The Lord has obviously no answer, as such. He, who had kept aloof from the Āḻvār all these days, putting one blame or the other at his door, now feels ashamed that he had not relcaimed him earlier, and, with His eyes fastened to the ground, He keeps scratching it with his toe.”—a graphic description indeed, which conveys vividly that the Lord’s dispensation, either way, springs from His Swātantarya (Independence, Free will), and not willing to say so to the Āḻvār, He discreetly kept silent. The position, in this regard, has been thrashed out in aphorisms 102 to 113 and 228 of ‘Ācārya Hṛdayam’. This is summarised below.

Surely, it is the Lord’s spontaneous grace that is now being shed on the Āḻvār, in super-abundance. According to his own admission, as we can cull out from his songs, the Āḻvār has not acquired any merit on his own through the pursuit of any one of the ‘Sādhana traya’, namely, Karma, Jñāna, Bhakti yogās, either in this birth or in the previous births. Right in this birth and that too, in a short time, God-love (Bhakti) of amazing dimensions, which would normally take ages of hard discipline to develop, has been generated in him by the Lord’s sweet grace. As a matter of fact, all the effort, needed for engendering ‘Bhakti’ of this magnitude in the Āḻvār, has been solely on the part of the Lord, the Indefatigable Cultivator, Who sows the seed of God-love in the subject’s mind and tills it to the point of fruition. It need not, for a moment, be doubted how the Lord’s grace could be unilateral without the effective involvement of the subjects, by way of self-effort, directed towards earning the requisite merit, the eligibility for the descent on him of the Lord’s grace. Well, even the twigs and tiny creatures of Ayodhyā went to Heaven, purely through Lord Rāma’s grace while the enchanting music of Lord Kṛṣṇa’s magic flute got even the trees and dumb creatures intoxicated with God-love. But then, it might be asked why the Lord should not extend such grace to one and all, instead of singling out the Āḻvār for the bestowal of His grace. This is tantamount to questioning the Lord’s will and wisdom, overlooking the fundamental fact that He is the Sovereign Master, absolutely independent and, therefore, free to bestow His gifts on whomsoever He pitches upon, at His sweet will and pleasure. Tradition has it that, in the good olden days, when the king of the land passed away and there was none in the regular line of succession to succeed him, the choice of the new king was made in a peculiar way. Peculiar though, it was accepted by the subjects without question. The crown eḻephant of the state would move about, holding a garland in its trunk. The person, on whom the elephant placed the garland, was crowned forthwith. Is the Sovereign Lord open to question if this elephant was not? Again, if the king lavished his affections on a particular lady, out of so many kept in his harem, none would dare to scrutinise and question why the king did so, when there were many others in his harem, equally charming, if not more.

\(ii\) Granting that the Āḻvār was not conscious of any merit in him, as such, could it be that the Lord redeemed him because of some hidden merit in him (ajñāta sukṛta) leading to vicarious reward? Well, the Āḻvār, endowed with knowledge, full and complete, clear and concise, who has thrown light on himself as well as many others through his mystic comprehension right from where he was, would certainly be conscious of the hidden merit in him, if there was any such thing at all. No doubt, the Āḻvār had a God-bent mind, soaked in God-love, but these traits of ‘Adveṣa’ (nonhatred and non-disinclination) and ‘ābhimukya’ (loving attention) towards God were not the outcome of his own merit but the work of God Himself. Did not the Āḻvār admit in II-7-8, that the Lord reconditioned his foul mind and redeemed it? Again, did he not acknowledge, in the immediately preceding song (2-7-7), that it was Vāmana, his Lord, Who ushered in him a mind, laid at His lotus feet, adoring Him all the time? It may be recalled, in this context, that Nampiḷḷai would say that it was not a case of reconditioning the Āḻvār’s mind, so as to make it God-bent, but one of providing a new mind altogether from the Lord’s strong-room, where valuables are stored up.

\(iii\) If the Āḻvār, who had strayed away, far too long, veered round and said that, by his own inclination, he lodged the Lord in his mind and that both he and his mind submitted to the Lord’s loving care, it should be realised that it was through the Lord’s strenuous and unremitting endeavours that the Āḻvār could be brought round, in this manner. The mere inclination to submit oneself to the Lord’s loving protection cannot, by any means, be regarded as the means employed for attaining Him, for, on the face of it, it is ludicrous to equate things which bear no comparison to each other. The casual utterance of the words ‘Mādhava’ and ‘Tirumāliruñcōlai’ without so much as the thought crossing one’s mind that the former is the Lord’s name and the latter, the name of a pilgrim centre very dear to Him, could no doubt come in for reward at the hands of the merciful Lord, according to His extra-liberal standards of securing the vicarious redemption of His subjects. Even so, much-too-slender that these methods are, they can hardly be regarded as the means for the attainment of the Supreme Lord. As a matter of fact, there was a time when the Lord claimed the Āḻvār as His own, and the latter repelled the former, saying that he Was his own and called upon the Lord to prove His claim by adducing the relevant evidence in support thereof. The Lord was knocked down, at every turn, by the recalcitrant subject, evidence such as the ‘Vedas’ and the utterances of the sages being dubbed partisan, one-sided and so on. When all arguments failed, the Lord had to wean round the Subject, crossing swords with Him, by exhibiting His enthralling Form. It was this exquisite charm of the Lord that induced God-love in the straying subject and made him realise and repent that he had expropriated the Lord’s property, all along, that is, looked upon his soul as belonging to him whereas it actually belonged to the Lord and thus committed a grave theft (ātmāpahāra). When all is said and done, the Lord Himself constitutes the merit (Sukṛt) for the Āḻvār’s deliverance and if the Lord’s redemptive grace did not alight on the Āḻvār, so far and it materialised only now, no other explanation can be adduced except attributing this to the Lord’s sweet, spontaneous grace, alighting, at His will, on the subjects of His choice, as the Āḻvār himself has brought out now and again. Well, it is the influx of the Lord’s grace that really matters and not the why and wherefore of it. Does any one who quenches the parching thirst, by drinking the milk of the cocanut, ever pause to examine beforehand how at all the milk got inside the cocanut?


