+++
title = "1291 Pasuram 10.9.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

மாதவன் தமர்என்று வாசலில் வானவர்  
போதுமின் எமதுஇடம் புகுதுக என்றலும்  
கீதங்கள் பாடினர் கின்னரர் கெருடர்கள்  
வேதநல் வாயவர் வேள்விஉள் மடுத்தே.

mātavaṉ tamareṉṟu vācalil vāṉavar  
pōtumiṉ ematuiṭam pukutuka eṉṟalum  
kītaṅkaḷ pāṭiṉar kiṉṉarar keruṭarkaḷ  
vētanal vāyavar vēḷviuḷ maṭuttē.

**English translation of verse 10.9.5:**

The Celestials did in the outer space assemble and revere  
The great marchers to [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"), saying “Here they are,  
The devotees of Mātavaṉ” and welcomed them to their places;  
The [Vedic](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedic definitions") scholars of the upper worlds did unto them release  
And bestow the benefits earned by their rites and rituals,  
While the [Kinnaras](/definition/kinnara#vaishnavism "show Kinnaras definitions") and Karuṭas [sang](/definition/sang#history "show sang definitions") many a song.

**Notes:**

The Celestials came out into the open to greet the devotees of Lord [Mādhava](/definition/madhava#vaishnavism "show Mādhava definitions") Who bears Śrī [Mahālakṣmī](/definition/mahalakshmi#vaishnavism "show Mahālakṣmī definitions") on His chest, as the favourite wards of the Divine Mother. The distinguished marchers to Heaven were accorded a warm reception by the Celestials who invited the former to [visit](/definition/visit#history "show visit definitions") their places and accept their hospitality. The Vedic Scholars of the upper worlds deemed it a great privilege to bestow on these marchers, the benefits, accrued by dint of their own Vedic rices and rituals. The Kinnaras and [Garuḍas](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍas definitions"), famous as singers in their respective lands, also sang songs to greet the great marchers. May be that the Heaven-bound ‘Released souls’, pining whole-heartedly for the attainment of the Lord in Heaven, are bereft of any kind of desire for such entertainments. Nevertheless, the denizens of the respective order in the upper regions, would at once deem it their great privilege and duty to entertain these distinguished men, passing along.


