+++
title = "1297 Pasuram 10.9.11"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வந்துஅவர் எதிர்கொள்ள மாமணி மண்டபத்து  
அந்தம்இல் பேரின்பத்து அடியரோடு இருந்தமை  
கொந்துஅலர் பொழில் குருகூர்ச்சடகோபன் சொல்-  
சந்தங்கள்ஆயிரத்து இவைவல்லார் முனிவரே. (2)

vantuavar etirkoḷḷa māmaṇi maṇṭapattu  
antamil pēriṉpattu aṭiyarōṭu iruntamai  
kontualar poḻil kurukūrccaṭakōpaṉ col-  
cantaṅkaḷāyirattu ivaivallār muṉivarē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.9.11:**

Those that can recite these songs ten,  
Out of the thousand [Veda](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Veda definitions")-oriented songs of [Caṭakōpaṉ](/definition/catakopan#vaishnavism "show Caṭakōpaṉ definitions")  
Of [Kurukūr](/definition/kurukur#vaishnavism "show Kurukūr definitions"), abounding in many a flower garden fine,  
Recounting his enjoyment in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") of beatific bliss eternal,  
In the [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions") of the devotees great, in the gem-set hall,  
Greeted by the Lord Supreme and the Divine Mother,  
Will become sages, steeped in the Divine, for ever.

**Notes:**

\(i\) This end-song sets out the benefit, accruing to the chanters of this decad, as being their elevation on a par with the sages in the high Heaven, immersed in incessant contemplation of the auspicious attributes of the Lord.

\(ii\) Oh, what a glorious ascent! How exciting, exhilarating and entertaining is this special Heaven-bound route, exclusively earmarked for the ardent devotees of Lord [Mahāviṣṇu](/definition/mahavishnu#vaishnavism "show Mahāviṣṇu definitions")! And there, at the other end, what a glorious reception by the Celestials, *en masse*, headed by their Chief, the Lord Himself, accompanied by the Divine Mother! And then, sitting in the grand gemset hall of Heaven, of incomparable excellence, in that august assembly, presided over by the Lord and the Divine Mother sharing His [throne](/definition/throne#history "show throne definitions"), is indeed the very acme of that inexhaustible bliss and beatitude.

Well, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") has, at long last, achieved what he had pined for, all along, namely, the enjoyment of the Lord in Heaven, in the holy company of the great ones.

\(iii\) The Āḻvār has now entered the second stage, namely, ‘Para [Jñāna](/definition/jnana#vaishnavism "show Jñāna definitions")’, in the ascending scale of God-love, which falls into the three distinct compartments of ‘[Para Bhakti](/definition/parabhakti#vaishnavism "show Para Bhakti definitions")’, ‘Para Jñāna’ and ‘[Parama](/definition/parama#vaishnavism "show Parama definitions") [Bhakti](/definition/bhakti#vaishnavism "show Bhakti definitions") The first of these three stages became pronounced when the Supreme Lord, with lotus eyes, got into the Āḻvār’s eyes, (1-9-8) and thus blessed the Āḻvār with His glorious vision. This ‘Para Bhakti’ gathered momentum and got intensified to its farthest limit in X-8-7, where the Āḻvār referred to the Lord’s continuous stay in his full view, for his eyes to feast upon. The intensity of divine love, surging within, is such that it seeks to break its bounds and launch into external perception and enjoyment of the Lord, the grand vision, outstripping the narrow limits of mental comprehension ([Darśana](/definition/darshana#vaishnavism "show Darśana definitions")). And now, this glorious darśan, given expression to, by the Āḻvār, by way of referring to his blissful participation in the grand galaxy of the ‘[Nityas](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nityas definitions")’ and ‘[Muktas](/definition/mukta#vaishnavism "show Muktas definitions")’ in Heaven, the eternal land of inexhaustible bliss, marks the second stage of his Godlove, namely ‘Para Jñāna’, in full swing (vide aphorisms 230 and 231 of [Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions") Hṛdayam).

\(iv\) *The bliss eternal*: The eternal land (Heaven) is the abode of unalloyed bliss interminable, the diametrically opposite of Earth, the harrowing abode of endless misery and nothing but that. The so-called enjoyment, resorted to and indulged in, by the folks over here is nothing but misery under the cloak of enjoyment, [pain](/definition/pain#history "show pain definitions") in the garb of pleasure. When [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions") [Pāṇḍu](/definition/pandu#vaishnavism "show Pāṇḍu definitions") aimed an [arrow](/definition/arrow#history "show arrow definitions") at a deer, the dying deer exclaimed: “A Rṣi that I am, my wife and I could snatch just a little time for sexual enjoyment and we disguised ourselves as deers, for this purpose. And this rare moment, one in a thousand, alas! You didn’t allow us to avail of. So, this is [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions")!”


