+++
title = "1300 Pasuram 10.10.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

முனியே! நான்முகனே! முக்கண்ணப்பா என்பொல்லாக்-  
கனிவாய்த் தாமரைக்கண் கருமாணிக்கமே என்கள்வா!  
தனியேன்ஆர்உயிரே! என்தலை மிசையாய் வந்திட்டு  
இனிநான் போகல்ஒட்டேன் ஒன்றும்மாயம் செய்யேல் என்னையே. (2)

muṉiyē! nāṉmukaṉē! mukkaṇṇappā eṉpollāk-  
kaṉivāyt tāmaraikkaṇ karumāṇikkamē eṉkaḷvā!  
taṉiyēṉāruyirē! eṉtalai micaiyāy vantiṭṭu  
iṉināṉ pōkaloṭṭēṉ oṉṟummāyam ceyyēl eṉṉaiyē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.10.1:**

Oh, Lord of fruit-like reddish lips and lotus eyes, You are the sage,  
Contemplating the ways of creation; Internal Controller of all, You stay  
Inside the four-headed [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions") and [Rudra](/definition/rudra#vaishnavism "show Rudra definitions"), the triple-eyed; Your Form exquisite,  
Like virgin sapphire, You did unto me exhibit  
And covertly won me over, dear unto me exclusively like [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"),  
You have on my head alighted and I [shan](/definition/shan#history "show shan definitions")’t let You go off;  
Play not your wily pranks on me, in love with you, so deep.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") pleads lustily that the Lord should no longer keep him in [bondage](/definition/bondage#history "show bondage definitions"), after having spontaneously induced in him God-love and God-hunger of this magnitude. The Lord is addressed, in this song, as the Sage ([Muni](/definition/muni#vaishnavism "show Muni definitions")), Who contemplates and conceives the projects pertaining to the creation of the Universe, its sustenance and dissolution and gets the work of creation and dissolution, discharged by Brahmā and Rudra respectively, permeating their souls as the Internal Controller. There is absolutely no question of parity among Brahmā, [Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions") and Rudra and, at any rate, the Āḻvār would be the last person to think in terms of such parity and, much less, throw the slightest hint or suggestion to this effect, seeing that he has already expounded indubitably the supremacy of Lord Viṣṇu, in I-1, II-2 and IV-10. If the Lord has been addressed in this song (as per the original text) as, “Oh, four-headed Brahmā,” “Oh, triple-eyed [Rudrā](/definition/rudra#vaishnavism "show Rudrā definitions"),” it only connotes the body-soul relationship of the Lord and His subjects, the entire Universe and all beings therein constituting, as it were, His bodies, Himself pervading them all, as the Inner Controller, the Super Soul, c.f. also VI-9-1 where the Āḻvār has referred to the Lord as pervading the five elements, Sun and Moon, [Śiva](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śiva definitions") and Brahmā, as the Inner Controller of them all.

\(ii\) The Lord’s ‘[Viśvarūpa](/definition/vishvarupa#vaishnavism "show Viśvarūpa definitions")’ (Universal Form) apart, the Āḻvār dotes on His unique Form ([Divya](/definition/divya#vaishnavism "show Divya definitions") [Maṅgala](/definition/mangala#history "show Maṅgala definitions") Vigraha) of exquisite charm. It is by exhibiting this enchanting Form that the Lord enticed the Āḻvār and made him God-bent, a great gesture of spontaneous grace, bestowed on the Āḻvār, unasked and unsolicited, at a time when he was least inclined towards God. And now, the Āḻvār, so transformed, cannot subsist without Him and he will have nothing to do with the worldlings either, in whose wretched [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions") he was wallowing all along. He would, therefore, be neither here nor there, if the Lord too gave him up, after having kindled in him God-love of such astounding proportions that he is seen to possess.

\(iii\) “*I shan't let You go off*”: “Ofcourse, *not at this stage*, when You have weaned me away from my erstwhile plight as a ‘Samsāri’, earth-bound and sense-buried and, on the top of such reclamation, made me partake of the supreme bliss of intimate intercourse with you. Well, you have also been pleased to bring within my comprehension the heavenly bliss and the exhilarating route leading to [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"). You shall not give me up, any more.” The Āḻvār thus compels and binds the Lord, by reason of his inordinate longing for Him and His inescapable obligation to redeem him. c.f. [Bharatā](/definition/bharata#vaishnavism "show Bharatā definitions")’s behaviour in Citrakūṭ, in an all-out effort to induce [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") to curtail his exile and go back to [Ayodhyā](/definition/ayodhya#vaishnavism "show Ayodhyā definitions"), to take over the reins of the kingdom.


