+++
title = "131 Pasuram 1.10.9"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

நம்பியை தென் குறுங்குடி நின்ற, அச்  
செம்பொனே திகழும் திரு மூர்த்தியை,  
உம்பர் வானவர் ஆதி அம் சோதியை,  
எம் பிரானை என் சொல்லி மறப்பனோ?

nampiyai teṉ kuṟuṅkuṭi niṉṟa, ac  
cempoṉē tikaḻum tiru mūrttiyai,  
umpar vāṉavar āti am cōtiyai,  
em pirāṉai eṉ colli maṟappaṉō?

**English translation of verse 1.10.9:**

On what pretext shall 1 forget my Lord of dazzling charm.  
The Progenitor of the exalted denizens of heaven,  
The perfect Lord Who, in Tentirukkuṟuṅkuṭi stands  
With an exquisite Form that does like red gold gleam?

**Notes**

\(i\) Asked whether he would not forget the Lord like the worldlings and go in pursuit of food and raiment, the Āḻvār says, he just does not know how and on what grounds he can forget the Lord. By exhibiting His exquisite charm in His Arcā form at Tirukkuṟuṅkuṭi (deep down, in Tamil Nadu), He enthralled the Āḻvār. How then could he forget Him? Could it be on the ground that He is not perfect, that He is not near at hand, that His form is not attractive, that He is not exalted, that He does not extend any benefits? No, none of these grounds will hold good, as could be seen from this stanza.

\(ii\) The Lord, in His Arcā (Iconic) form in Tirukkuṟuṅkuṭi, is referred to as the perfect one in whom all the auspicious qualities converge in a perfect measure. No doubt, the qualities of saulabhya (easy accessibility), Sauśīlya (condescension), Vātsalya (tender solicitude) etc. are also displayed by the Lord in His ‘Para’ or transcendent form in the High Heavens. But, in that land of perfect bliss and perpetual splendour, these qualities can be hardly perceptible in such a marked degree as they are in this land of darkness, delusion and despair. There is all the difference between a light burning in broad day light and the one shining forth in a dark room. (Iṭu)


