+++
title = "1311 Tenth Centum, in retrospect (Decad-wise Summary)"

+++
(10-1): With the clear awareness that the day of his promised ascent to [heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show heaven definitions") was near at hand, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") set about preparing for his onward journey. Finding the Lord in His worshippable Form at Tirumōkūr, as the super-abundant Benefactor with profound knowledge and prowess, capable of steering through all obstacles on the way, the Āḻvār got hold of Him, as the unfailing Escort, during his onward march to the yonder Heaven. Apart from the Lord’s attainments, His bewitching beauty is enough to make the Āḻvār follow Him, [enjoying](/definition/enjoying#history "show enjoying definitions") His exquisite Form, all along. Such a Lord is lauded by the Āḻvār, *in the opening decad of this centum*, through appropriate songs, set in choice diction;

(10-2): *In the second decad*, the Āḻvār sings the glory of the Lord, enshrined at Tiruvaṉantapuram ([Kerala](/definition/kerala#history "show Kerala definitions") State) and longs for the felicity of divine service unto the Lord. As we go on, we will find the Āḻvār calling successively at the holy centres of Tiruvāṭṭaṟu, Tirumāliruñcōlai, Tiruppēr and adoring the Lord, enshrined in those places. Having been assured of his ascent to Heaven, at the end of the current span of [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), vide IX-10-5, Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions") quite well knew that the day of his ascent was near at hand. That is why, he has actively embarked on a programme of leave-taking;

(10-3): The Āḻvār’s aspiration for divine service at Tiruvaṉantapuram-as in the preceding decad, did not materialise. So deep was his sense of frustration that it led him to suspect the frightful possibility of the Lord prolonging his stay in this abode. *In the third decad*, the Āḻvār, however, expresses his apprehension in an indirect way, cloaking his own misgivings by referring to those entertained by the shepherdesses of [Bṛndāvana](/definition/brindavana#history "show Bṛndāvana definitions"). These damsels started nagging [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"), the naughty cow-herd boy, even in the early hours of the morning, the pre-dawn period. The cool breeze is blowing, the koels have started cooing, the [peacocks](/definition/peacock#history "show peacocks definitions") are strutting about and the herds of cows and calves are seen spread out, all over the place. So great is Kṛṣṇa’s loving care for the cattle that He would surely follow and tend them, relegating to the background His concern for the [Gopīs](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopīs definitions") who cannot, however, brook separation from Him even for a short while. Greatly agitated over the certainty of His departure from their midst on this particular morning also, as usual, they start experiencing the pangs of separation, even when He is still by their side. One of them would lustily plead with Him that He shall not leave them and go out into the [fields](/definition/field#history "show fields definitions"), firstly, because they cannot bear being apart from Him for a whole day which actually looms like ages in their aching minds, and secondly, because of the lurking danger to His life, at the hands of [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions")’s evil spies and agents, who keep on masquerading in one form or another, all over the place. This decad, however, ends on a jubilant note, with a sense of clarity induced by the Lord’s assurance to the Gopīs that He shall not depart from their midst. The Āḻvār’s misgivings also stand cleared up, a clarity induced by the Lord Himself.

(If our eminent preceptors referred to IX-9, as ‘Evening brawl’, they did label this *decad as* “ Morning squabble”).

(10-4): His erstwhile [fears](/definition/fear#history "show fears definitions") having been quelled, the jubilant Āḻvār gets busy in giving the finishing touches appropriate to this grand hymnal of unparalleled sweetness and grandeur. *In the fourth decad*, the Āḻvār sets out the benefits accruing to those [pursuing](/definition/pursuing#history "show pursuing definitions") the path of loving devotion unto the Lord besides recounting the benefits showered on him by the Lord, how the Lord contrived to get Himself lodged firmly in the Āḻvār’s heart, how complacent He feels after reaching that coveted destination and so on.

(10-5): Overwhelmingly conscious of the almost immediate prospect of his ascent to Heaven, the Āḻvār tenders his parting advice to the world *in the fifth decad*, the very last in the series of lectures delivered by him for the edification and elevation of the earth-bound, sense-buried men of the world. In this swan-song of the Āḻvār, he calls upon the worldly men to chant Lord [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions")’s holy names and serve Him, in conjunction with Mahalakṣmī, the Divine Mother, by word ([singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions")), deed (offering choice flowers) and thought (loving [meditation](/definition/meditation#history "show meditation definitions")).

(10-6): *In the sixth decad*, the Saint highlights the speed with which the Lord wishes to take him to the [heavenly abode](/definition/heavenly-abode#history "show heavenly abode definitions"). Whereas the Āḻvār was hitherto seeking out the Lord and pursuing Him doggedly, the Lord is now in hot pursuit of the Āḻvār. In the exuberance of His love for the Āḻvār, the Lord would even think in terms of lifting him bodily to Heaven and seek the Saint’s permission therefor. How amazing and how incredible that the Sovereign Lord should seek the Āḻvār’s permission and want to play the subordinate role! Not finding any one else with whom the Āḻvār could share this wonderful experience of his, he opens up a dialogue with his own God- bent mind and gives vent to his hearty appreciation of the Lord’s tender solicitude and amazing simplicity, in this decad.

(10-7): From his present vantage position, the Āḻvār could prevail upon the Lord to give up His over-ambitious project of lifting the former up to Heaven, with this very body made up of the elements, the ‘prākṛtik’ nest. That the sovereign Lord should desist from putting through His cherished desire, purely in deference to the Āḻvār’s injunction, excites the Āḻvār’s admiration of the Lord’s amazing simplicity and tender solicitude, all the more. Literally lost in the contemplation of these extra-ordinary traits of the Lord, th‘e Āḻvār could regain his normal composure only after quite some time. Therefore it is, the Āḻvār warns like-minded poets, steeped in the enjoyment of the Lord’s auspicious traits, not to get involved in these enthralling traits of the Lord but just skip over them lest they should also get bogged down, as he did. The Lord, who exhibited such a great predilection for the Āḻvār’s physical frame, is depicted, *in the seventh decad*, as the One enshrined in Tirumāliruñcōlai ([Tamiḻ](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamiḻ definitions") [Nāḍu](/definition/nadu#history "show Nāḍu definitions")). The Lord is said to have lavished on the Āḻvār’s material body, the aggregate of the love, borne by Him for the sacred centres of front-rank eminence like Mount Tirumāliruñcōlai, Mount Tiruvēṅkaṭam, the Milk-*ocean and* Sri Vaikunta, the High [Heavens](/definition/heaven#history "show Heavens definitions").

(10-8): With the stage, now well-set for his Heaven-bound journey, the Āḻvār accosts the Lord and seeks His explanation for His age-long indifference, allowing him to drift so long in this land of dark nescience, in dire contrast to His present hurry to put him in Heaven. The Āḻvār, however, quickly realises that the present dispensation of the Lord is but the influx of His spontaneous grace, totally unrelated to the merit in him. It is this voluntary grace of the Lord that the Āḻvār dwells upon, *in the eighth decad*, and rejoices.

(10-9): The Lord should have felt embarrassed by the rather inconvenient question put to Him by the Āḻvār, in the preceding decad. He, therefore, tried skilfully to tide over this unenviable situation, by bringing within the Āḻvār’s mental comprehension the entire panorama of his ascent to Heaven. The [clouds](/definition/cloud#history "show clouds definitions") and the oceans roared like an orchestra, heralding the Āḻvār’s ascent to Heaven and the inhabitants of all the seven islands, bestowed on him their choicest offerings. The sweet [music](/definition/music#history "show music definitions") and the fanfare of trumpets etc., from the land of the [Kinnaras](/definition/kinnara#vaishnavism "show Kinnaras definitions"), [Gandharvas](/definition/gandharvas#vaishnavism "show Gandharvas definitions") and [Garuḍas](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍas definitions") in the upper regions, hailing the Āḻvār’s ascent to Heaven, were made to fall on his ears; the chanks and bugles sounded all over, beautiful damsels with spear-shaped eyes [sang](/definition/sang#history "show sang definitions") in chorus the Āḻvār’s glory. The Maruth [Gaṇas](/definition/gana#history "show Gaṇas definitions") and [Aṣṭa](/definition/ashta#history "show Aṣṭa definitions") [vasus](/definition/vasu#vaishnavism "show vasus definitions") kept chanting the laudatory hymns continually. The upward journey to Heaven through the exhilarating route, known as Arcirādi [Gati](/definition/gati#history "show Gati definitions"), the propitiation of the Āḻvār by the Angels, *enroute*, the Āḻvār’s entry into Heaven and the grand ovation accorded to him by the denizens on the yonder side, his access to the gem-set hall, where Lord [Mahāviṣṇu](/definition/mahavishnu#vaishnavism "show Mahāviṣṇu definitions") holds His ceremonial Durbar, duly conducted by the guides nominated for the purpose, and attainment of the Lord’s feet, all these were experienced mentally by the Āḻvār and voiced forth by him, *in the penultimate decad*, in an impersonal manner. He just depicts how, as a class, the devotees of the Supreme Lord, Śrīmān Nārāyaṇa are on their ascent to Heaven through this exalted route, exclusively ear-marked for them, greeted all along the route and received with special honours by the denizens of the upper regions, showering praises on the new-comers, so on and so forth.

(10-10): It was indeed a rude jolt to the Āḻvār, who was shocked into a sense of stark reality, when he opened his eyes and found that all that exhilarating experience, expatiated on, by him in the preceding decad, was a mere mental comprehension and nothing more. Eaten up by the cruel pangs of frustration at that he is still lingering in the unenviable mesh of ‘[prakṛti](/definition/prakriti#vaishnavism "show prakṛti definitions")’ (matter), the Āḻvār voices forth his deep yearning with the utmost effort, like the full-throated call for relief from one engulfed by wild fire. Weighed down by a gnawing sense of guilt, the merciful Lord of remarkable tenderness of heart, felt even more depressed than the Āḻvār himself. And so, the Lord and His Divine Consort rushed down, mounted on [Garuḍa](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍa definitions"), [flying](/definition/flying#history "show flying definitions") at supersonic speed. The Lord cut out the Āḻvār’s material contacts, *in toto*, and led him to the transcendental abode (Śrī vaikuṇṭam). There, in the high Heaven, the ultimate destination of the yearning soul, the Āḻvār entered the august [gathering](/definition/gathering#history "show gathering definitions") of the great devotees of Lord Vaikuṇṭanātha and mingled freely with them, the joyous intercourse with the holy band in that exalted land, pined for by him since long, thus becoming an accomplished fact. According to the Āḻvār’s own admission in the penultimate song of *this concluding decad*, the Lord’s love for him outgrew his own and made it dwindle down to naught. The Āḻvār’s love progressed, by stages, as one can perceive, going through the entire gamut of this grand hymnal and currently, it has attained its full stature ([Parama](/definition/parama#vaishnavism "show Parama definitions") [Bhakti](/definition/bhakti#vaishnavism "show Bhakti definitions")), outstripping all else, assuming supra-cosmic proportions, even to the extent of enveloping the Lord Himself. The Lord, however, forestalled the Āḻvār, enveloped his ‘avā’ (deep love) and thereby held him, in His sweet embrace. In the concluding stanza of this decad, which is also the grand finale of this great hymnal, the Āḻvār gives vent to his sense of completion and fulfilment, saying that he has reached the ultimate destination, all the impediments having been eradicated, root and branch. Thus ends the ‘Avāvilantāti’, a special [species](/definition/species#history "show species definitions") of prosody, charged with ‘Bhakti’, in which the closing word of each song is the opening word of the next one.


