+++
title = "137 Introduction to Section 2.1"

+++
In the last stanza of the preceding decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") who had already conjured up the vision of the Lord as having entered his body and gone right up to his head, referred to the Lord as the blue gem, overlord of the Celestials and a very attractive [jewel](/definition/jewel#history "show jewel definitions"), by himself. Each one of these features of the Lord was so fascinating that the Āḻvār could not resist the immediate urge to enjoy them outwardly. The enjoyment, longed for, did not, however, materialise instantly and the Āḻvār was thrown into a state of deep dejection, reduced to the abject position of a forlorn [lover](/definition/lover#history "show lover definitions"). The Āḻvār, thus transformed into a female lover (Parāṇkuśa Nāyakī), pining for her beloved Lord, moves into a garden on the sea-shore to bemoan her separation. It may be recalled that she was in a similar predicament earlier, when she sent the [birds](/definition/bird#history "show birds definitions") etc, as her emissaries to the Lord-See 1-4. But then, she is worse off now, not finding any one to carry her message to the Lord. The self-same stork which she had commissioned earlier now looms in her eyes as a comrade-in-distress. The stork’s natural complexion is white but the Āḻvār thinks that it is a case of decoloration due to the pangs of separation from the Lord, experienced by it. The Aṉṟil birds of opposite sex always stay together and even during sleep keep their bills locked in each other‘s mouth. The moment the bills get unlocked, they wake up and start [crying](/definition/crying#history "show crying definitions"). Unaware of this natural sequence, Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī thinks that these birds cry out their agony of separation from the Lord, like her. The wind, ever on the move, appears to the Āḻvār to go about frantically in search of the Lord; the [clouds](/definition/cloud#history "show clouds definitions"), unleashing rain-water, look like shedding [tears](/definition/tear#history "show tears definitions") of grief due to separation from the Lord; likewise, the waning of the Moon, the surging, up and down, of the waves, the [burning](/definition/burning#history "show burning definitions") of the [lamp](/definition/lamp#history "show lamp definitions") and all other natural phenomena are invested by the love-lorn Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī with her own poignancy and she bemoans their lot as well. This sets the pace and pattern of this decad, pin pointing the Lord’s quality of making his devotees mad with God-love.

Here is an interesting comparison: [Lakṣmaṇa](/definition/lakshmana#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmaṇa definitions"), while pleading that he should be allowed to accompany [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") into exile, cited the example of the [fish](/definition/fish#history "show fish definitions") failing to survive without water, thereby indicating that Śrī [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") was unto Lakṣmaṇa what water is unto fish. But here is Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī who feels that the fish, water and all things subsist on the Lord and cannot brook separation from Him! The Āḻvār addresses these Comrades-in-distress commiserating with them in their sad plight. It is worth noting that [Śloka](/definition/sloka#vaishnavism "show Śloka definitions") 15 and the following few [ślokas](/definition/sloka#vaishnavism "show ślokas definitions") in the last chapter of the tenth [Skanda](/definition/skanda#history "show Skanda definitions") of [Bhāgavatam](/definition/bhagavatam#vaishnavism "show Bhāgavatam definitions") run in a similar vein.


