+++
title = "138 Pasuram 2.1.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

வாயும் திரை உகளும் கானல் மடநாராய்,  
ஆயும் அமர் உலகும் துஞ்சிலும் நீ துஞ்சாயால்,  
நோயும் பயலைமையும் மீது ஊர எம்மேபோல்,  
நீயும் திருமாலால் நெஞ்சம் கோள்பட்டாயே?

vāyum tirai ukaḷum kāṉal maṭanārāy,  
āyum amar ulakum tuñcilum nī tuñcāyāl,  
nōyum payalaimaiyum mītu ūra emmēpōl,  
nīyum tirumālāl neñcam kōḷpaṭṭāyē?

**English translation of verse 2.1.1:**

Sleep you don‘t, You young stork in the sea-shore garden!  
Though my mother and Heavens too have into slumber gone;  
The whole of your body is white with grief great;  
Like me, have you unto Tirumāl lost your heart?

**Notes**

\(i\) Not falling within the mischief of ‘tamas’ (inertia), there is no question of the Heavens going into slumber. The wonder of it is that even the Heavens, never known to sleep, have gone to sleep, but the poor stork doesn’t sleep! The (gnostic) mother would not sleep because there was a time when she was agitating her mind about finding a suitable match for her highly evolved daughter (Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī), and now again, the mother cannot sleep when the daughter is in such a state of mental agony, separated from her Lord. Even such a mother has gone to sleep but the stork wouldn’t sleep. Surely, its affliction must be very heavy.

\(ii\) The Āḻvār thinks that decoloration has set in throughout the body of the stork like the fast-spreading poison, and that is why it is white all over. About the decoloration of the lover due to the gloom of separation, see notes below 1-4-4.

\(iii\) The soul can neither be split nor burnt, neither wetted nor dried up, and yet the Āḻvār has, in several places, referred to his getting split, burnt, wetted and dried up; the inanimate mind is raised by him to the status of an animate being and he extols it and denounces it alternately, recording to its tempo and behaviour; each sense-organ, each faculty, is made to acquire an independent stature of its own, as if it is a separate animate entity by itself and these compete with each other in the matter of God-enjoyment, exceeding and even transcending their functional limitations (3-8); God-love, engendered in the Āḻvār also acquires a similar stature and is said to thaw down like ice. And now, the Āḻvār sees the very elements, water, wind and lire, as comrades-in-distress, and weeps along with them, bespeaking the intensity of his God-thirst, not conforming to the conventional norms of thinking and behaviour, (aphorism 132 of Ācārya Hṛdayam).


