+++
title = "150 Introduction to Section 2.2"

+++
In the last decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") was confined to the bottom-most depth of dejection and his yearning for the Lord baffled description. It was but meet that the Lord came and presented Himself before such an ardent devotee and saved him from collapsing altogether. It goes without saying that, when the Āḻvār came, face to face, with the Lord, all his erstwhile dejection and the resultant fatigue vanished altogether. The Āḻvār then made up his mind not to allow himself to be swept off once again, by contemplating the Lord’s trait of ‘Saulabhya’ (easy accessibility). He would rather tackle the other plank, safe and steady, namely, the Lord’s overlordship and transcendent glory and sustain himself.

No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), in the opening decad of the first centum also, the Āḻvār spoke about the Lord’s Supremacy and transcendent glory. But that was in a different key altogether. There it was direct postulation, as such, running parallel to the [Vedic](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedic definitions") texts. Here, the Āḻvār establishes the Lord’s Supremacy through an elimination of the claims of the possible contenders for this position of Supereminence, citing the relevant anecdotes from the ‘[Itihāsas](/definition/itihasa#vaishnavism "show Itihāsas definitions")’ and ‘[Purāṇas](/definition/purana#vaishnavism "show Purāṇas definitions").’ There it was confined solely to the ‘Para’ or transcendent state of the Lord in the High [Heavens](/definition/heaven#history "show Heavens definitions") whereas here, the Supremacy of the Lord is brought out in His ‘[Vibhava](/definition/vibhava#vaishnavism "show Vibhava definitions")’ or incarnate state. Speaking about the [Avatāras](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāras definitions") (Incarnations), the Lord’s wondrous deeds can bear endless repetitions, without satiety. Every time the same trait or deed is repeated, there is a freshness about it, with a new aroma.


