+++
title = "178 Pasuram 2.4.2"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

வாள் நுதல் இம் மடவரல், உம்மைக்  
காணும் ஆசையுள் நைகின்றாள், விறல்  
வாணன் ஆயிரம் தோள் துணித்தீர், உம்மைக்  
காண நீர் இரக்கம் இலீரே.

vāḷ nutal im maṭavaral, ummaik  
kāṇum ācaiyuḷ naikiṉṟāḷ, viṟal  
vāṇaṉ āyiram tōḷ tuṇittīr, ummaik  
kāṇa nīr irakkam ilīrē.

**English translation of verse 2.4.2:**

To behold you (of beauty exquisite),  
Who, the thousand arms of mighty vāṇaṉ smote.  
This young lady of forehead bright  
Stands consumed by a burning desire,  
But your grace on her you don’t confer.

**Notes**

\(i\)

> “Oh, Lord > Kṛṣṇa, You > secured Uṣā, the daughter of the mighty > Bāṇāsura > for > Aniruddha, > your grandson, after chopping off the Asura’s thousand sinewy > shoulders. And yet you would not relent in the case of my daughter and > relieve her distress”.

\(ii\) Reference has again been made to the bright forehead of Parāṅkuṣa Nāyakī oṇly to betray the mother’s surprise at the Lord’s indifference even to one of such fascinating charm.

\(iii\) *Mother to the Lord*:

> “Oh, it is all topsy-turvy my daughter pining for you! It should be > the other way around. It is indeed the Owner who should be all agog to > get at his property.”

The Lord retorts saying,

> “Well, your daughter’s desire to get at me may be all right but the > impediments to the realisation of her desire are heavier still”.

But then, the mother is not prepared to swallow this. She asks Him “For one who smote the thousand arms of the mighty Bāṇāsura, is it at all difficult to cut out these impediments?”


