+++
title = "180 Pasuram 2.4.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

இலங்கை செற்றவனே என்னும், பின்னும்  
வலம் கொள் புள் உயர்த்தாய் என்னும், உள்ளம்  
மலங்க வெவ் உயிர்க்கும், கண்ணீர் மிகக்  
கலங்கிக் கைதொழும் நின்று இவளே

ilaṅkai ceṟṟavaṉē eṉṉum, piṉṉum  
valam koḷ puḷ uyarttāy eṉṉum, uḷḷam  
malaṅka vev uyirkkum, kaṇṇīr mikak  
kalaṅkik kaitoḻum niṉṟu ivaḷē

**English translation of verse 2.4.4:**

Says unto you my daughter, oh, Lord,  
“[Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"), (for [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions")’s sake) you destroyed  
And on your banner is the mighty [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions") ([Garuḍa](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍa definitions"))”;  
With a mind agitated and breathing hot,  
[Tears](/definition/tear#history "show Tears definitions") well up her eyes and badly upset, And stunned she stands, with joined palms.

**Notes**

\(i\) [Mother to the Lord:]

> “I thought I had consoled my daughter saying that she should sustain > herself meditating on your meritorious deeds as [Śrī > Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") with > the firm belief that you will, some day, succour her as you did Sītā. > Even Sītā had to wait for quite some length of time before she was > reclaimed from her captivity in Laṅkā. But suddenly my daughter has > started [crying](/definition/crying#history "show crying definitions") > as before. But then, She says that you were pining for Sītā all the > time, but you just can’t remember this poor girl. It is not as if you > lack the means of locomotion if only you wished to come and meet my > daughter. She is well aware that the mighty Garuḍa, moving at > supersonic speed, is always at your disposal. And so she concludes it > is sheer indifference on your part. On the other hand she is very much > agitated and bursting with tears. Nevertheless, with joined palms she > is > [worshipping](/definition/worshipping#history "show worshipping definitions") > You. I just don’t know what to do”.

\(ii\) It is worth noting that, whatever be the mood and mode of speech of the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), be he calm or agitated, his basic stance as the Lord’s sole servitor (Śeṣatva) remains quite *in tact*; in other words, his essential [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") ([svarūpa](/definition/svarupa#vaishnavism "show svarūpa definitions")) does not undergo any modification. That is how reference is made to the Parāṅkuṣa Nāyakī’s worshipping posture even in such an extremely critical state of mental cogitation (see, in this connection, aphorism 119 of ‘[Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions") Hṛdayam’).


