+++
title = "181 Pasuram 2.4.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

இவள் இராப்பகல் வாய்வெரீ இத், தன  
குவளை ஒண் கண்ண நீர் கொண்டாள், வண்டு  
திவளும் தண் அம் துழாய் கொடீர், என  
தவள வண்ணர் தகவுகளே.

ivaḷ irāppakal vāyverī it, taṉa  
kuvaḷai oṇ [kaṇṇa](/definition/kanna#history "show kaṇṇa definitions") nīr koṇṭāḷ, vaṇṭu  
tivaḷum taṇ am tuḻāy koṭīr, eṉa  
tavaḷa vaṇṇar takavukaḷē.

**English translation of verse 2.4.5:**

Day and night this girl keeps babbling  
And in her flowery eyes [tears](/definition/tear#history "show tears definitions") are swelling;  
You don’t on her bestow your tulacī garland, cool and lovely,  
Swarmed by bees; What has happened, (I can’t see)  
To you of disposition pure and your qualify of mercy.

**Note**

\(i\) [Mother to the Lord:]

> “Well, if you don’t relent even in such a precarious condition of my > daughter what indeed has happened to your quality of mercy? Has it > dried up altogether? >
> My daughter is talking about you all the time whereas it should be the > other way round. We know from > [Hanumān](/definition/hanuman#vaishnavism "show Hanumān definitions")’s > report to [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") > how you kept pining for her, spending sleepless days and rights, > thinking and talking about her all the time. Oh, what a pity! the eyes > of my daughter which should shed tears of joy are bursting with > sorrow. After all, what does she want from you? Nothing more than the > cool tulacī garland from your person in replacement of the withered > one on her feverish body, consumed by the pangs of separation from > you. Actually, she envies the bees gaily swarming your garland studded > with honey, and even wishes that she had been born as one of those > fortunate bees”.

\(ii\) Reference has been made by the mother to the Lord’s [purity](/definition/purity#history "show purity definitions") of disposition and quality of mercy in this context rather sneeringly. Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar would put it that the mother means to say,

> “Well, if there were a few persons like you the girls would indeed > prosper very well!”


