+++
title = "183 Pasuram 2.4.7"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

உள் உள் ஆவி உலர்ந்து உலர்ந்து, என  
வள்ளலே கண்ணனே என்னும், பின்னும்  
வெள்ள நீர்க் கிடந்தாய் என்னும், என  
கள்விதான் பட்ட வஞ்சனையே.

uḷ uḷ āvi ularntu ularntu, eṉa  
vaḷḷalē kaṇṇaṉē eṉṉum, piṉṉum  
veḷḷa nīrk kiṭantāy eṉṉum, eṉa  
kaḷvitāṉ [paṭṭa](/definition/patta#history "show paṭṭa definitions") vañcaṉaiyē.

**English translation of verse 2.4.7:**

Enticed by the Lord is my daughter  
And her inner soul is fully dried  
And yet from me she tries to hide  
And cries out, “Oh, my liberal Lord,  
[Kaṇṇā](/definition/kanna#history "show Kaṇṇā definitions"), resting on oceanic waters”.

**Notes**

\(i\) With an aching heart the mother gives expression to her daughter’s enticement by the Lord and her present critical condition. The soul which is inherently incapable of being [burnt](/definition/burning#history "show burnt definitions") or dried up, is said to have been dried up in Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī’s case. And yet, she tries to keep her mother off the track and lauds her beloved Lord.

\(ii\) Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī says her Lord is a great Benefactor, a liberal donor and all that, just like a person in deep thirst calling repeatedly, ‘water, water’ or chewing up bits of refined [camphor](/definition/camphor#history "show camphor definitions").

\(iii\) In [Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions") [dharma](/definition/dharma#vaishnavism "show dharma definitions"), one is advised to meditate on Lord [Narasiṃha](/definition/narasimha#history "show Narasiṃha definitions"), while moving about in a frightfully dark night, to ward off evils; likewise, one, in dire distress or deep thirst, should think of the Lord reclining in the milky ocean.

\(iv\) [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") had exclaimed that he couldn’t be away from [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions"), the dark-eyed, even for a trice.

The Lord’s position vis-a-vis Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī should also be just the same and yet, the mother witnesses things happening in the reverse Order here and she, therefore, calls it a mere treachery.


