+++
title = "184 Pasuram 2.4.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வஞ்சனே என்னும் கைதொழும், தன  
நெஞ்சம்வேவ நெடிது உயிர்க்கும், விறல்  
கஞ்சனை வஞ்சனை செய்தீர், உம்மைத்  
தஞ்சம் என்று இவள் பட்டனவே.

vañcaṉē eṉṉum kaitoḻum, taṉa  
neñcamvēva neṭitu uyirkkum, viṟal  
kañcaṉai vañcaṉai ceytīr, ummait  
tañcam eṉṟu ivaḷ paṭṭaṉavē.

**English translation of verse 2.4.8:**

Oh, Slayer of heady Kañcaṉ, here is my daughter  
Who in you refuge sought and is now in great distress;  
The heavy sigh she heaves, her heart blisters;  
And yet, with folded hands she dees your treachery own,  
How You made her your vassal, to her unknown.

**Notes**

\(i\) When the mother complained in the previous song about the treacherous enticement of her daughter by the Lord, Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī could not bear this affront to her beloved Lord. [Uttering](/definition/uttering#history "show Uttering definitions") the same word, ‘treachery’, as the mother did, the Nāyakī gives it a different complexion. The Lord’s treachery lies in the great good He has done her by making her His vassal *unknown to her*.

\(ii\) The daughter’s distress, referred to by the Mother, can be analysed as follows:

> She does not go after > [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions") and raiment > like the worldlings;  
> Nor does she enjoy the heavenly bliss like the celestials in > [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions");  
> She cannot wait patiently till, one day, the final goal is reached;  
> Nor does the Lord finish her off as He did the heady > [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions"), > upsetting all his nefarious plans.  
> How tantalising, and that too, for one whose sole refuge is the Lord! > This is the mother’s complaint.


