+++
title = "186 Pasuram 2.4.10"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

ஏழை பேதை இராப்பகல், தன  
கேழ் இல் ஒண் கண்ண நீர் கொண்டாள், கிளர்  
வாழ்வை வேவ இலங்கை செற்றீர். இவள்  
மாழை நோக்கு ஒன்றும் வாட்டேன்மினே

ēḻai pētai irāppakal, taṉa  
kēḻ il oṇ kaṇṇa nīr koṇṭāḷ, kiḷar  
vāḻvai vēva ilaṅkai ceṟṟīr. ivaḷ  
māḻai nōkku oṉṟum vāṭṭēṉmiṉē

**English translation of verse 2.4.10:**

Laṅkā’s spectacular wealth you routed, Oh, Sire,  
This poor girl’s eyes of peerless beauty shed tears  
Day and night; may you keep, at least,  
The youthful looks in her eyes in tact!

**Notes**

[Mother to the Lord:]

> “The tears welling up my daughter’s eyes day and night resemble the > water drops around the lotus leaf shining like > pearls, a sight > indeed for you which you cannot afford to miss. Actually it is you > that had worked her up to such a pitch and would you not like to > behold and enjoy the fruits of your > labours? >
> Is it not a sight for Gods, the rapturous ravishment of the > love-smitten Saint, when his whole being thrills with love and his > eyes swim with pearls of tears? >
> If you think that there are heavy impediments in the way of your > joining my daughter can’t you eradicate them even as you routed the > demoniac > Rāvaṇa’s > Laṅkā? Well, if you are intent upon destroying my daughter also, > please do not go the whole hog out as you did in the case of Rāvaṇa, > but spare at least her bewitching looks which is about all that > remains of her now. >
> If she passes away we will lose her. But mind you, you will lose your > very source of sustenance. You are known to subsist on the sweet looks > of your consorts. It is up to you now not to run into a personal loss > of such a magnitude”.


