+++
title = "187 Pasuram 2.4.11"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

வாட்டம் இல் புகழ் வாமனனை இசை  
கூட்டி வண் சடகோபன் சொல், அமை  
பாட்டு ஓர் ஆயிரத்து இப் பத்தால், அடி  
சூட்டலாகும் அம் தாமமே.

vāṭṭam il pukaḻ vāmaṉaṉai icai  
kūṭṭi vaṇ caṭakōpaṉ col, amai  
pāṭṭu ōr āyirattu ip pattāl, aṭi  
cūṭṭalākum am tāmamē.

**English translation of verse 2.4.11:**

Those that recite these songs ten,  
Out of the thousand melodious songs of Caṭakōpaṉ,  
Graciously composed and grammatically clean,  
In adoration of Vāmaṉaṉ of undying renown,  
Will have the fortune great,  
To offer lovely flowers at His feeṭ.

**Notes**

\(i\) Those that recite these ten songs will be endowed with the bliss of rendering perennial service at the feet of the Lord in the company of the ‘Nitya Sūrīs’ in Heaven, the very bliss coveted by the Āḻvār at the end of the last decad, without passing through any of the sufferings undergone by the Āḻvār.

\(ii\) In the first song of this decad reference was made to Parāṅkuṣa Nāyakī withering down. Actually her condition reflects the state of the Lord as well. And now that mention is made of Vāmaṉaṉ of undying fame, it can be inferred that He rose to His full stature by responding to the mother’s call to preserve her daughter’s looks, the very source of His sustenance. And so He is back again face to face with the Saint.

\(iii\) Mention has been made here of Vāmaṉaṉ, in particular, as He Was known to be very keen about the reclamation of His possessions even if it involved His having to seek alms. And now, will He lag behind even after the mother had begged of Him to take particular care of His very source of sustenance?


