+++
title = "191 Pasuram 2.5.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

திரு உடம்பு வான் சுடர் செந்தாமரை கண் கை கமலம்,  
திரு இடமே மார்வம் அயன் இடமே கொப்பூழ்,  
ஒருவு இடமும் எந்தை பெருமாற்கு அரனே ஓ,  
ஒருவு இடம் ஒன்று இன்றி என்னுள் கலந்தானுக்கே.

[tiru](/definition/tiru#history "show tiru definitions") uṭampu vāṉ cuṭar centāmarai kaṇ kai kamalam,  
tiru iṭamē mārvam ayaṉ iṭamē koppūḻ,  
oruvu iṭamum entai perumāṟku araṉē ō,  
oruvu iṭam oṉṟu iṉṟi eṉṉuḷ kalantāṉukkē.

**English translation of verse 2.5.2:**

Oh, what a wonder! the Lord who holds on His chest  
Tiru ([Lakṣmī](/definition/lakshmi#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmī definitions")), whose navel is [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions")’s [seat](/definition/seat#history "show seat definitions") while the rest  
Is by Araṉ held, has with me mingled, leaving vacant  
No space in my body; beams my Sire’s body with rare brilliance  
And aglow like the lotus red are His eyes and hands.

**Notes**

(ī) Lakṣmī, the Divine Mother, stands ensconced on the Lord’s chest; Brahmā, the demi-urge, appointed by the Lord to create all the fourteen worlds, would not budge from His navel and the rest of the Lord’s body is occupied by Araṉ ([Rudra](/definition/rudra#vaishnavism "show Rudra definitions")). One so great has now come and taken possession of the entire body of the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"). Thrilled by his contact with the Lord’s exquisite person, the Āḻvār describes His lustrous body. When He casts loving glances at the Āḻvār, the latter sees His lotus eyes proclaiming His overlordship (Sovereignty and Supremacy). Apprehending the frightful possibility of the Āḻvār once again resiling, overwhelmed by the Lord’s Sovereignty, the Lord catches hold of the Āḻvār by the hand. At once, the Āḻvār describes the lotus hand that gripped him.

\(ii\) While discoursing on this song, the great Preceptor, Nañcīyar feelingly remarked:

\(iii\) “The Āḻvār, who is our greatest wcḷḷ-wisher, speaks of the Lord’s body beaming with brilliance. Indeed, there is hardly a sin as heinous as denying the Lord, His form and attributes, even as there is no favour done by the Lord to us, so great as this one of our being kept outside the pale of such a heresy”.

\(iv\) It is noteworthy that it is not a mere fantastic visionary but Saint Śaṭakōpa, endowed by an Omniscient Lord with knowledge, full and complete, shorn of [doubts](/definition/doubt#history "show doubts definitions"), despair, discrepancies and deviations, (See I-1-1) that goes into raptures over the Lord’s exquisite Form. Compare also, Lord [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") offering His body, in embrace, to [Hanumān](/definition/hanuman#vaishnavism "show Hanumān definitions"), the glorious emissary, on the latter’s return from his pioneering [visit](/definition/visit#history "show visit definitions") to [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"), deemed by the Lord as the choicest gift. He could māke, befitting the particular context. Surely, it was not an illusory or fictitious body that the Lord palmed off as the choicest gift but one most coveted by Himself and specifically assumed by Him for the purpose of His [avatāra](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show avatāra definitions").


