+++
title = "230 Introduction to Section 2.8"

+++
In the last decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") was overwhelmed by the Lord’s extraordinary benevolence which did not stop with him aloṇe but overflowed its continents and extended to those connected with him, seven generations, back and forth. In other words, the heavenly bliss enjoyed by the ‘*[Nityās](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nityās definitions")*’ in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") could be shared by him and his associates, right here. In his boundless compassion for the [suffering](/definition/suffering#history "show suffering definitions") humanity, caught up in the vortex of worldly [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") and sensual pleasures, the Āḻvār would naturally like to seize this [golden](/definition/gold#history "show golden definitions") opportunity and get the area of benevolence extended, by getting the ‘*Samsārīs*’ (worldlings) also associated with him as fellow-devotees. And so, he turns round and advises them to get into the Divine fold, seeing that the Lord is the one and only granter of [Mokṣa](/definition/moksha#vaishnavism "show Mokṣa definitions"), the final bliss, ridding them of the terrific involvement in worldly life, with its dreadful cycle of [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") and [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions"). It may be recalled that, once before, vide 1-2, the Āḻvār addressed the fellowbeings with whom he wished to share all that exalted knowledge about the Divine order, imparted to him by a self-revealing God.

The earlier [Ācāryas](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācāryas definitions") had held that, in this decad, the Āḻvār propagates the Lord’s Supremacy. But Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar was inclined to think that the Lord’s prowess of granting ‘Mokṣa’ is being talked about in this decad. As a matter of fact, the Lord’s Supremacy has been dealt with in this very centum, in the Second decad, and there is no need to repeat it here so soon. Further, this decad is replete with expressions relating to the grant of Mokṣa. In any case, it makes no difference either way, as God-head (‘*Īśvaratva*) and the prerogative of granting Mokṣa (*Mokṣa-pradatva*) go hand in hand, vested solely in the Supreme Lord.

Towards the end of this decad, as can be seen from stanza ten, the Āḻvār, however, feels frustrated by the unresponsive world around, jogging on in just the same way as before, all his advice having fallen on deaf ears, like the advice tendered by Mālyavāṉ and others to [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions"). The Āḻvār would, therefore, profitably revert to the enjoyment of the Lord as before, which got interrupted for a while because of his misplaced sympathy for those around, totally impervious to his wholesome advice. At the same time, it was no mean consolation for him. that; in the process, he escaped getting contaminated by them and becoming one of them, Great indeed is his jubilation that he could still retain, *in fact*, the priceless wealth of God-love and God-enjoyment, like that of a person who clears a dacoit-infested area without being robbed and molested.


