+++
title = "237 Pasuram 2.8.7"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

கிடந்து இருந்து நின்று அளந்து கேழல் ஆய் கீழ்ப் புக்கு  
இடந்திடும், தன்னுள் கரக்கும் உமிழும்,  
தடம் பெருந் தோள் ஆரத் தழுவும் பார் என்னும்  
மடந்தையை, மால் செய்கின்ற, மால் ஆர் காண்பாரே?

kiṭantu iruntu niṉṟu aḷantu kēḻal āy kīḻp pukku  
iṭantiṭum, taṉṉuḷ karakkum umiḻum,  
taṭam perun tōḷ ārat taḻuvum pār eṉṉum  
maṭantaiyai, māl ceykiṉṟa, māl ār kāṇpārē?

**English translation of verse 2.8.7:**

Lying, sitting and standing, measuring the worlds,  
Getting into the waters deep and lifting up the Earth,  
As the Boar gigantic, holding with Him all the worlds  
And then spitting them out, embracing dame Earth  
On His broad shoulders complacent, who can comprehend His love for Mother earth?

**Notes**

\(i\) Many indeed are the wondrous deeds of the Lord, done out of His great love for Mother Earth, the Sportive universe (*Līlā vibhūti*).

\(ii\) *Lying, sitting and standing*:

There are several ways of appreciating these postures of the Lord. These are set out below:

> \(a\) *Reclining* on the Milk-ocean, the centre of creative activity, > surrounded by the band of celestials;  
> *Sitting* on the > serpent > couch in the High > Heaven;  
> *Standing* firm on Mount Tirūvēṅkaṭam, His favourite resort. >
> (*c) Lying* prostrate in front of the Ocean, Śrī > Rāma’s > supplication to the > king of the > ocean;  
> *Sitting* (Staying) in the > Āśramas > of the Mahaṛṣīs during His exile;  
> *Standing* victorious at the gates of > Laṅkā after > slaying > Rāvaṇa > (may also refer to Śrī > Rāma standing > victorious after slaying > vāli). >
> \(c\) *Lying* in the pilgrim centre known as > Puḷiṅkuṭi.  
> *Sitting* in the pilgrim centre known as > Varakuṇamaṅkai.  
> *Standing* in the pilgrim centre known as *Śrīvaikuṇṭam*. >
> \(a\) above refers to the Lord’s transcendent glory;  
> (b) above refers to the Lord’s ‘Saulabhya’ (easy accessibility) in His > Incarnate form,  
> (c) refers to the Lord’s iconic manifestation in these different > postures in the respective pilgrim centres. See also notes under > V-10-6.


