+++
title = "247 Pasuram 2.9.4"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

எனக்கே ஆட்செய் எக்காலத்தும் என்று, என்  
மனக்கே வந்து இடைவீடு இன்றி மன்னி,  
தனக்கே ஆக எனைக் கொள்ளும் ஈதே,  
எனக்கே கண்ணனை யான் கொள் சிறப்பே.

eṉakkē āṭcey ekkālattum eṉṟu, eṉ  
maṉakkē vantu iṭaivīṭu iṉṟi maṉṉi,  
taṉakkē āka eṉaik koḷḷum ītē,  
eṉakkē kaṇṇaṉai yāṉ koḷ ciṟappē.

**English translation of verse 2.9.4:**

The greatest good I desire from Kaṇṇaṉ, my Lord,  
True to my essential nature, is that command He shall,  
That I serve Him wholly and at all times, and own He shall  
Me as His exclusive vassal, in my mind firmly lodged.

**Notes**

\(i\) This song is the quintessence of this decad, determining, as it does, the greatest good for the individual soul, in keeping with its essential nature, namely, abject dependence on the Lord as His exclusive vassal for all time. For abiding in such a state without the slightest aberration at any time, the Āḻvār seeks the Lord‘s Grace.

\(ii\) Śrī Nampiḷḷai appreciates this decad as the most outstanding, of all the hundred decads (Tiruvāymoḻis) and even so, this song is the best, in this decad, That is because the Āḻvār prays unto the Lord that He should stay inside him, firm and for ever, and take from him service, service exclusively unto Him and at all times, rendered solely for His pleasure, eschewing the slightest tinge of personal egoism, absolutely selfless like the Moon, Southerly breeze, sandal paste and water.

\(iii\) In the learned assembly presided over by Empār, Piḷḷai Tirunarayūr Arayar enquired why the Āḻvār, endowed with full and complete knowledge, clear and concise, should at all make a request of this kind to the Lord, instead of resigning himself wholly to His grace, leaving Him to do whatever He liked. While agreeing with the Arayar that it was a pertinent question, Empār elucidated that it was the innate charm of the destined goal, namely, selfless service unto the Lord for His exclusive enjoyment that drew the Āḻvār out in this manner and made him long for it, even as the Divine Mother, inseparably poised on the Lord’s winsome chest, keeps on saying, “I shall not get parted from my Lord even for a trice”.


