+++
title = "25 Pasuram 1.2.7"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

அடங்கு எழில் சம்பத்து அடங்கக் கண்டு ஈசன்  
அடங்கு எழில் அஃது என்று அடங்குக உள்ளே.

aṭaṅku eḻil campattu aṭaṅkak kaṇṭu īcaṉ  
aṭaṅku eḻil aḵtu eṉṟu aṭaṅkuka uḷḷē.

**English translation of verse 1.2.7:**

Realise that all this exceedingly enchanting cosmic wealth, you behold, is that of *Īcaṉ* [and that you are but a part of that]; [with this sense of belonging] it behoves you to blend yourself into it.

**Notes**

\(i\) No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), it was duly emphasised in the preceding stanzas that the Lord’s native simplicity is far more pronounced than His overlordship, might and majesty. But the very thought of His majesty puts us, the insignificant tiny little beings nowhere, just like a bit of straw drifting on the bosom of the mighty ocean, being borne back to the shore by the curling waves. But all this [fear](/definition/fear#history "show fear definitions") would vanish when we realise that we form part of His possessions and are thus rightfully entitled to approach Him, in love, without fear of such vast distance existing between Him and us, as between the ocean and the straw.

\(ii\) The miraculous change wrought by this sense of belonging has been happily illustrated by that great Preceptor, Nañcīyar, as follows:

> (*a*) A > [merchant](/definition/merchant#history "show merchant definitions") > went overseas for trading leaving his wife behind in an advanced state > of pregnancy. A son was born to them and grew up nicely. Years rolled > on and yet the merchant did not come back home. There was an > exhibition in a neighbouring place at which the little boy took up a > stall and sold his wares. Just then, the aforesaid merchant also > returned from abroad and took up a neighbouring stall. There arose a > quarrel, one of those days, over the encroachment of goods in their > booths and when it grew violent a passer-by, who knew them both, > pointed out that the elderly merchant was quarreḷḷing with his own > son. Hostilities ceased immediately and gave place to mutual remorse, > with the happy *reunion* of father and son. >
> (*b*) It was a lovely garden and the Prince had a great mind to enter > it. But then, he was afraid of trespassing into somebody’s garden and, > therefore, stood hesitatingly at the entrance. However, as soon as > some one said, “This garden belongs to your father, the > [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions")”, all fear > vanished and he dashed inside, roamed about and enjoyed to his heart’s > content. So does our fear to approach the Almighty vanish as soon as > we realise that we are His children, the natural objects of His > boundless love.


