+++
title = "264 Pasuram 2.10.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வலஞ்செய்து வைகல் வலம் கழியாதே,  
வலஞ்செய்யும் ஆய மாயவன் கோயில்,  
வலஞ்செய்யும் வானோர் மாலிருஞ்சோலை,,  
வலஞ்செய்து நாளும் மருவுதல் வழக்கே.

valañceytu vaikal valam kaḻiyātē,  
valañceyyum āya māyavaṉ [kōyil](/definition/koyil#history "show kōyil definitions"),  
valañceyyum vāṉōr [māliruñcōlai](/definition/maliruncolai#vaishnavism "show māliruñcōlai definitions"),,  
valañceytu nāḷum maruvutal vaḻakkē.

**English translation of verse 2.10.8:**

Acquire strength all right but waste it never,  
Better go round daily Māliruñ Cōlai where stands enshrined  
The wondrous shepherd ([Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions")), our great Benefactor  
And the Celestials come down and move around.

**Notes**

\(1\) The Lord gives Himself unto His devotees, besides the strength to enjoy the rapport with Him. Lord Aḻakar Himself goes round Mount Māliruñcōḷai, in the [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions") of His Consorts, even as [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") and [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") went round, hand in hand, the mountain slopes of Citrakūṭa.

Even as the [citizens](/definition/citizen#history "show citizens definitions") of [Ayodhyā](/definition/ayodhya#vaishnavism "show Ayodhyā definitions") followed Śrī [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") when he went into exile, the Celestials do come to this pilgrim centre and circumambulate the [temple](/definition/temple#history "show temple definitions") of Aḻakar. It would indeed be a grievous misuse of the specially endowed human body, highly conducive to holding communion with the Lord and serving Him in a number of ways, if it strayed into the domain of sensual pleasures, thus moving in the opposite direction.

\(ii\) Nañcīyar is said to have related from personal experience how he observed Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar and Piḷḷai Tirunarayūr Arayar, leisurely pacing about the premises of the [temples](/definition/temple#history "show temples definitions"), gazing at the tall turrets and the lovely mansions around, in short, imbibing every small detail, literally drinking them in, with their eyes. This was in dire contrast to the men of the world to whom visiting temples is a mere formality, moving about like racehorses, as if it is a place more to hurry from. For the great Savants to whom the Lord is at once the Means and the End, temples are places to stay and serve. No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), genuflections and circumambulations do not serve as the ‘Means’ for them and yet, they get absorbed in the sanctity of the temples and their [surroundings](/definition/surrounding#history "show surroundings definitions"), as an end in itself.


