+++
title = "275 Pasuram 3.1.4"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

மாட்டாதே ஆகிலும் இம் மலர் தலை மாஞாலம், நின்  
மாட்டு ஆய மலர்புரையும் திருவுருவம் மனம் வைக்க  
மாட்டாத பலசமய மதி கொடுத்தாய், மலர்த்துழாய்  
மாட்டேநீ மனம் வைத்தாய் மாஞாலம் வருந்தாதே?

māṭṭātē ākilum im malar talai māñālam, niṉ  
māṭṭu āya malarpuraiyum tiruvuruvam maṉam vaikka  
māṭṭāta palacamaya mati koṭuttāy, malarttuḻāy  
māṭṭēnī maṉam vaittāy māñālam varuntātē?

**English translation of verse 3.1.4:**

The sprawling world which did from your navel sprout,  
Thinks not your glory and your form exquisite  
(And worse still), many a religion is extant,  
Preaching heretical doctrines, the mind errant  
You gave them and yet if you are solely intent  
On enjoying the fragrance from your ṭuḷaci garland,  
Won’t it be a grievous loss for this world indeed?

**Notes**

\(i\) Brahmā, the demi-urge, emerged from the lotus stalk on the Lord’s navel and created all the worlds; hence the worlds are said to have come up from the Lord’s navel.

\(ii\) No doubt, in the preceding song, the Āḻvār confessed to his inability to describe the Lord’s attributes and yet it is Lord Aḻakar’s extraordinary beauty that eggs him on, to speak out his mind, deploring, at the same time, the aloofness of the world from the Lord, so sweet and exquisite. People have already no taste for Godhead and it is grievous enough. Further deterioration sets in, when diverse religions expound mutually contradictory and incompatible tenets and doctrines. The Āḻvār says that the Lord gave rise to all this hotch-potch in as much as He didn’t correct the minds of those going the wrong way. If, in a grievous situation like this, the Lord is complacent enough and his attention gets fixed on the sweet fragrance and freshness of His tuḷaci garland, instead of being harnessed to the reclamation of the errant Subject, there is indeed no hope of redemption for this world. This observation of the Āḻvār arises from his enjoyment of Lord Aḻakar’s exquisite beauty and the feeling of sorrow that the world around is unmindful of the Lord, so sweet and exquisite, because of the above factors. There is also the grand poetic imagery, the poet bringing out that Lord Aḻakar’s charm is so alluring that it ensnares Him as well and makes him oblivious of the imperative need to correct the world from going the wrong way under the unwholesome impact of heretical doctrines, propounded by perverts.


