+++
title = "299 Pasuram 3.3.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

எந்தை தந்தை தந்தை தந்தை தந்தைக்கும்  
முந்தை, வானவர் வானவர் கோனொடும்,  
சிந்து பூ மகிழும் திருவேங்கடத்து,  
அந்தம் இல் புகழ்க் கார் எழில் அண்ணலே.

entai tantai tantai tantai tantaikkum  
muntai, vāṉavar vāṉavar kōṉoṭum,  
cintu pū makiḻum tiruvēṅkaṭattu,  
antam il pukaḻk kār eḻil aṇṇalē.

**English translation of verse 3.3.2:**

Of endless glory and exquisite bluish hue,  
Our great progenitor first and foremost, dwells in Tiruvēṅkaṭam,  
Strewn with crimson flowers of unfailing hue,  
Attended by the celestials from [heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show heaven definitions") and their chieftain.

**Notes**

\(i\) To a query why he is rendering service unto the Lord at Tiruvēṅkaṭam when the final goal is service of the Lord in Heaven, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") replies that even the Celestials headed by Śrī Śēṉāpati Āḻvār ([Cēṉaimutaliyār](/definition/cenaimutaliyar#vaishnavism "show Cēṉaimutaliyār definitions")) come down, in their strength, to serve the Lord at Tiruvēṅkaṭam. That is because of the twin aspects of the Lord, namely, supremacy (Paratva) and simplicity (Saulabhya). The latter can be enjoyed only in Tiruvēṅkaṭam and hence, the Celestials come down here to enjoy that which cannot be experienced in Heaven. Even so, they get swept off their feet by the Lord’s amazing simplicity and the garlands, set with colourful flowers, brought by them to be offered to the Lord, drop from their hands unawares but these flowers of Celestial origin do not fade at all.

\(ii\) *Limitless glory*

The glory of the Lord, comprehended iṇ Heaven by ṭhe denizens of the Eternal Land, would seem to be circumscribed, in as much as the ‘[Nityās](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nityās definitions")’ (ever-free angels) and Mukṭās’ (released souls) inhabiting that region, endowed with the transcendent forms are well equipped to partake of all that bliss, emanating from the Lord. On the other hand, in this abode of ours, the Lord is revealing Himself in His [Arcā](/definition/arca#history "show Arcā definitions") (iconic) form to all and sundry, including wild beasts. His glory in this hallowed land is limitless indeed.


