+++
title = "303 Pasuram 3.3.6"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வேம் கடங்கள் மெய்மேல் வினை முற்றவும்,  
தாங்கள் தங்கட்கு நல்லனவே செய்வார்,  
வேங்கடத்து உறைவார்க்கு நம என்னல்-  
ஆம் கடமை, அது சுமந்தார்கட்கே.

vēm kaṭaṅkaḷ meymēl viṉai muṟṟavum,  
tāṅkaḷ taṅkaṭku nallaṉavē ceyvār,  
vēṅkaṭattu uṟaivārkku [nama](/definition/nama#vaishnavism "show nama definitions") eṉṉal-  
ām kaṭamai, atu cumantārkaṭkē.

**English translation of verse 3.3.6:**

Inclination for selfless service into Vēṅkaṭattuṟaivār (He that dwells in [Vēṅkaṭam](/definition/venkatam#vaishnavism "show Vēṅkaṭam definitions")),  
Shall our past sins [burn](/definition/burning#history "show burn definitions") down as well as those yet to come;  
(With the dawn of favour thus conferred)  
The devout shall in such wholesome service persevere.

**Notes**

\(i\) This song is the sequel to the first song of this decad where mention was made of rendering every kind of service to the Lord at Tiruvēṅkaṭam, without break or blemish. Asked how it would at all be possible to render such service, when the sins operate as serious impediments, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") clarifies that the mere contemplation of service unto the Lord will root out all sins committed so far as well as those likely to rear up their ugly heads in the days to come, by reason of our material contacts and ensure unremitting service, in a wholesome spirit. But then, it might be asked how the accumulated [heaps](/definition/heap#history "show heaps definitions") of sins of ages could be destroyed by a simple gesture, as above. Śrī Bhaṭṭārya set at naught this [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions") through the following illustration:

[Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") sought the help of the [king](/definition/king#history "show king definitions") of the ocean to bund the sea and cross over to [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"), lying prostrate in front of the ocean, for full three days, with due austerity. When the king of the ocean failed to present himself, Śrī [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") got enraged and was about to drive a shaft into the bosom of the ocean, threatening to dry it up. Struck with terror, the king of the ocean appeared instantly and made his obeisance. The king of the ocean having thus capituaḻated and come to terms, Śrī Rāma was pacified. He not only generously pardoned the king but made the extraordinary gesture of asking him to indicate where his enemies were, so that the bow lifted against him could vent its fury on his enemies. Śrī Rāma’s bow was never lifted in vain, and the [arrow](/definition/arrow#history "show arrow definitions") sped in the direction of the target, pointed out by the king of the ocean, to vanquish his enemies.

In ‘[Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions") Sahasranāma’, there are, *inter alia*, two names of the Lord, viz., ‘Stavya [*stavyaḥ*]’ and ‘Stavapriya [*stavapriyaḥ*]’. The first means that the Lord is praiseworthy and each one of His several attributes would faithfully depict the Lord. ‘Stavapriyaḥ’ means one, who is pleased with the praise showered on Him, in any form or [language](/definition/language#history "show language definitions"), correctly worded or not. And so, with all our limitations, even the feeble praise from our feeble tongues endears us to the Lord, Who overlooks all our faults and sins and regards us, in an ample measure.

\(ii\) Would it be necessary to do hard [labour](/definition/labour#history "show labour definitions") to get rid of our Sins? Not at all; all that is needed is loving service, rendered disinterestedly, befitting one’s station in [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") and conforming to one’s essential [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") ([svarūpa](/definition/svarupa#vaishnavism "show svarūpa definitions")). Even the simple word ‘[namaḥ](/definition/nama#vaishnavism "show namaḥ definitions")’ (I don’t belong to myself but to you), uttered by the devotee, is deemed by the over-generous Lord as very weighty indeed and He cuts out all the sins of the devotee and puts him on the path of unremitting Divine Service.


