+++
title = "304 Pasuram 3.3.7"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

சுமந்து மாமலர் நீர் சுடர் தூபம் கொண்டு,  
அமர்ந்து வானவர் வானவர் கோனொடும்,  
நமன்று எழும் திருவேங்கடம் நங்கட்குச்,  
சமன் கொள் வீடு தரும் தடங் குன்றமே.

cumantu māmalar nīr cuṭar tūpam koṇṭu,  
amarntu vāṉavar vāṉavar kōṉoṭum,  
namaṉṟu eḻum tiruvēṅkaṭam naṅkaṭkuc,  
camaṉ koḷ vīṭu tarum taṭaṅ kuṉṟamē.

**English translation of verse 3.3.7:**

By itself, Tiruvēṅkaṭam, that august mountain  
Where do repair the Celestials with their chieftain  
And worship with choice flowers, water, lamp and incense,  
Shall unto us grant the blissful emancipation (the etemal service).

**Notes**

\(i\) “For securing the uninterrupted service in the Eternal Lar d we pine for, the good offices of the holy mountain, Tiruvēṅkaṭam, will do. It would be hardly necessary for us to propitiate Lord Śrīnivāsa (enshrined there), in this behalf” says the Āḻvār.

\(ii\) The adjective ‘Choice’, in the third line, qualifies not only the flowers but also water and incense, meaning the best of each kind. The excellence of the material' offered, however, lies not in its physical quality but in the devotion with which it is offered. Did not the Lord say, in Bhagavad Gītā (9-27), as follows?

“Whosoever shall offer Me, in faith and love, a leaf, a flower, a fruit, water poured forth, that offering, lovingly made with pious will, I do accept”.

The following illustration will drive home this point.

On one occasion, some princes had a desire to offer Lord Jagannātha at Pūri (in Orissa), Campaka flowers, said to be His favourite. Going to the flower-market, they found that the flowers had been sold out and there was but a solitary flower left. This gave rise to keen competition among the princes and they went on bidding till one of them staked his entire fortune and bought the flower. The flower was offered by the Prince to the Lord who appeared in his dream that night and exclaimed that the debt of his flower was indeed too heavy for Him, thereby signifying His gracious acceptance of the sincerely made offering, which was even beyond His capacity to repay!

\(iii\) The term ‘Celestials’ has been used comprehensively so as to include besides the Nityasūris, (the ever-free angels in heaven), Brahmā and other Devas. Although Brahmā and other Devas do not serve the Lord disinterestedly but always seek favours from Him for their own selfish ends, yet, the Āḻvār is charitable enough and invests them with his own bent of mind, painting them also as selfless, like him.


