+++
title = "307 Pasuram 3.3.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வைத்த நாள் வரை எல்லை குறுகிச் சென்று,  
எய்த்து இளைப்பதன் முன்னம் அடைமினோ,  
பைத்த பாம்பு அணையான் திருவேங்கடம்,  
மொய்த்த சோலை மொய்பூந்தடந் தாழ்வரே.

vaitta nāḷ [varai](/definition/varai#history "show varai definitions") ellai kuṟukic ceṉṟu,  
eyttu iḷaippataṉ muṉṉam aṭaimiṉō,  
paitta pāmpu aṇaiyāṉ tiruvēṅkaṭam,  
moytta cōlai moypūntaṭan tāḻvarē.

**English translation of verse 3.3.10:**

Better reach the sacred precincts of Tiruvēṅkaṭam.  
With orchards many and a cluster of [tanks](/definition/tank#history "show tanks definitions"),  
Where stays the Lord whose bed is the [serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show serpent definitions"),  
With outstretched hoods, ere your [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions")’s quantum  
Draws to a close and your health badly shrinks.

**Notes**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") exhorts us to take to the enchanting Tiruvēṅkaṭam, as the final goal. The All-Merciful Lord has indeed dowered on us life and limbs to help us move about and worship the Lord in His Iconic manifestation, in the various pilgrim centres like Tiruvēṅkaṭam and render unto Him every possible service. But, alas! we dissipate our lives and energies, in several ungodly pursuits, till, one day, old age and the attendant infirmity overtake us unawares and badly impair our mobility.

\(ii\) This song also stresses the grandeur of Tiruvēṅkaṭam which has attracted the Lord despite His having Ādiśeṣa, the posh bed, highly delectable. Again, from the point of view of the devotees, it is equally attractive and if only they would care to go there ere old age catches them in its unrelenting grip, they could render service unto the Lord with great ease, absolutely free from fatigue, in that exhilarating environment.


