+++
title = "328 Pasuram 3.5.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

சாது சனத்தை நலியும் கஞ்சனைச் சாதிப்பதற்கு,  
ஆதி அம் சோதி உருவை அங்கு வைத்து இங்குப் பிறந்த,,  
வேத முதல்வனைப் பாடி வீதிகள் தோறும் துள்ளாதார்,  
ஓதி உணர்ந்தவர் முன்னா என் சவிப்பார் மனிசரே?

cātu caṉattai naliyum kañcaṉaic cātippataṟku,  
āti am cōti uruvai aṅku vaittu iṅkup piṟanta,,  
[vēta](/definition/veta#history "show vēta definitions") mutalvaṉaip [pāṭi](/definition/pati#vaishnavism "show pāṭi definitions") vītikaḷ tōṟum tuḷḷātār,  
ōti uṇarntavar muṉṉā eṉ cavippār maṉicarē?

**English translation of verse 3.5.5:**

Not all their [learning](/definition/learning#history "show learning definitions") and mumblings dry will make them men,  
If they [dance](/definition/dance#history "show dance definitions") not in the open [streets](/definition/street#history "show streets definitions"), love-smitten  
And sing not the glory of the Lord, by [Vedas](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedas definitions") acclaimed  
As the foremost, who did in all that supernal splendor descend  
From the high [heavens](/definition/heaven#history "show heavens definitions"), to kill Kañcaṉ, the tyrant  
Who did the soft and pious men [torment](/definition/torment#history "show torment definitions").

**[Notes](https://www.wisdomlib.org/admin/files/tiruvaymoli/abbyy_macro.php?v=book3#bookmark213)**

\(i\) In the preceding decad the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") enjoyed the Vibhūtīs collectively, being the Lord’s controlled possessions. But now he differentiates between the Lord’s subjects; he is all praises for those love-drunk and love-smitten possessing enormous God-hunger and God-thirst like himself but condemns unreservedly those who are not charged with such God-love. The Āḻvār has no hesitation in declaring the massive learning and ritualistic, prosaic exercises in mumblings and genuflections, palmed off as [prayers](/definition/prayer#history "show prayers definitions") by those in the latter category, as wholly futile.

\(ii\) The Lord’s incarnations and the herculean deeds performed by Him during those incarnations, were due to the unpardonable sins committed by [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions") and other demoniac forces, by way of teasing and tormenting the pious and the pure, like [Vasudeva](/definition/vasudeva#vaishnavism "show Vasudeva definitions") and [Devakī](/definition/devaki#vaishnavism "show Devakī definitions"). Whereas the Lord is least mindful of direct affront thrown at Him, He gets furious when His devotees are offended and He will never exercise His proverbial clemency, in respect of such grievous offenders. Those who comprehend the Lord’s enormous love for His devotees cannot but throw off all their sophistication and conventional formalities and leap about and dance like mad men, in the streets, big and small, [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") His great glory. It would be appropriate to mention the following anecdote, in this context.

The [king](/definition/king#history "show king definitions") built a cluster of [houses](/definition/house#history "show houses definitions") for presentation to the poor. He was, however, very much averse to Vaiṣṇavites and so, he flatly declined to hand over one of the houses to Miḷakāḻvāṉ, a [Vaiṣṇava](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇava definitions"), when approached by the latter for the grant. The supplicant, however, wanted to know from the king the grounds on which the grant was negatived.

The king bluntly replied:

“No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), you are worthy, in other respects, but as a Vaiṣṇava and a disciple of Śrī Rāmānuja, you stand disqualified.”

So great was Miḷakāḻvāṉ’s love of his religion and his great Preceptor, that he exclaimed: ‘Oh, is that so? I am mighty glad, you recognise me as a Vaiṣṇava although I thought I was not worthy of being called as one.

“So saying, he gathered up his garment, threw it up in the air and danced with joy”.


