+++
title = "336 Introduction to Section 3.6"

+++
In the preceding decad, the Āḻvār extolled the devotees thrown into a state of ecstasy, enraptured by the contemplation of the Lord’s wondrous deeds and auspicious traits, moving about, all the time singing and dancing. In the same breath he spoke disparagingly of those who do not exhibit this kind of behaviour but remain callously indifferent, unmoved by and impervious to the glory of the Lord. But then, the Āḻvār, known for his deep compassion and love for the fellow-beings, wished to bring round even those in the latter category and impress, in their mind, the Lord’s extraordinary trait of tender solicitude and easy accessibility. No doubt, the Āḻvār had already expatiated on this in 1-3, but that was in terms of the Lord’s incarnations (Vibhava aspect). And now, in this decad, the Āḻvār expounds the Lord’s ‘Saulabhya’ easy accessibility in His Iconic Form which is not only the most easily accessible but also the very embodiment of every known and conceivable good quality in a perfect measure, a complete enumeration whereof would be beyond the capacity of the omniscient Lord Himself. Verily, the Lord’s Arcā (Iconic) manifestation is the very acme, the farthest limit of His wonderful trait of ‘Saulabhya’. Nampiḷḷai likens the Āḻvār’s great gesture to that of Sītā, the captive in Laṅkā, who tendered wholesome advice to the lustful Rāvaṇa who desired to have promiscuous relation with the Divine Mother, mistaking her for a mere woman. Even as the Āḻvār made no secret of his vexation, in the last decad, of callous indifference and aloofness of men devoid of God-love, Sītā too got vexed with Rāvaṇa’s amorous advances and the dearth of wholesome counsellors in the land, who could bring round this fiend of a fellow, terribly love-smitten. But, being grace personified, she herself counselled him to befriend Rāma and avoid a gruesome death.

The ninth song is the crucial one high-lighting the theme of this decad.


