+++
title = "339 Pasuram 3.6.3"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

பரவி வானவர் ஏத்த நின்ற பரமனை பரஞ்சோதியை,  
குரவை கோத்த குழகனை மணி வண்ணனை குடக் கூத்தனை,  
அரவம் ஏறி அலை கடல் அமரும் துயில்கொண்ட அண்ணலை,  
இரவும் நன் பகலும் விடாது என்றும் ஏத்துதல் மனம் வைம்மினோ.

paravi vāṉavar ētta niṉṟa paramaṉai parañcōtiyai,  
kuravai kōtta kuḻakaṉai [maṇi](/definition/mani#vaishnavism "show maṇi definitions") vaṇṇaṉai kuṭak kūttaṉai,  
aravam ēṟi alai kaṭal amarum tuyilkoṇṭa aṇṇalai,  
iravum naṉ pakalum viṭātu eṉṟum ēttutal maṉam vaimmiṉō.

**English translation of verse 3.6.3:**

Day and night, without break, sing the glory of the supreme Lord,  
Set your mind on Him, by [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions") profusely lauded,  
Who did (with [Gopīs](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopīs definitions")) tastefully [dance](/definition/dance#history "show dance definitions"), hand in hand,  
Of superlative splendour, the Pot-dancer of the complexion  
Of blue gem, reposing on His [serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show serpent definitions")-bed, in the surging ocean.

**Notes**

\(i\) And now, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") introduces his audience to the Lord’s [Avatāra](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāra definitions") as [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"), of unsurpassed simplicity and calls upon the folks to set their minds firmly on Him who cannot but be loved because of His loving condescension, tender solicitude, unique charm, adorability and a host of other auspicious attributes.

Tradition has it that Mother Earth bitterly complained to [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions") about the atrocious burden she had to carry, with demoniac forces like [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions") and [Śiśupāla](/definition/shishupala#vaishnavism "show Śiśupāla definitions") let loose on Earth. Brahmā and other Devas then made a bee-[line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") to the Lord who was reclining on His serpent-bed in the milky ocean and petitioned to Him. Thereupon, the Lord came down as Kṛṣṇa and His task duly done, He went back to the Milky-ocean and rested on Ādiśeṣa, as before.

\(ii\) *The dance with the Gopīs*: It was a classical [autumn](/definition/autumn#history "show autumn definitions") night in the bright fortnight, the unique night of unparalleled excellence when the marvel of a dance, the immortal ‘[Rāsa Krīḍā](/definition/rasakrida#history "show Rāsa Krīḍā definitions")’, took place. ‘Śrī Kṛṣṇa played’ on His inimitable flute, sending out sweet strains of [music](/definition/music#history "show music definitions") in all directions with their irresistible appeal to the young damsels of the pastoral [village](/definition/village#history "show village definitions"). They all left their homes, defying obstruction from the elders and converged towaids the magic flautist. And then ensued the marvel of marvels, the wonderful wonder of wonders, the circular dance in which the ubiquitous Kṛṣṇa made Himself so very pliable as to be seen in between one [Gopī](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopī definitions") and another, multiplying Himself in this fashion. Oh, how astounding that the Overlord of the Celestials in [heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show heaven definitions") should come down to Earth and mingle so freely with the shepherd-folks and be quite at home with them! And to those who missed witnessing this grand spectacle, He would exhibit His physical charm right at the [cross-roads](/definition/cross-road#history "show cross-roads definitions") as the skilful Pot-dancer.


