+++
title = "349 Introduction to Section 3.7"

+++
Despite his earlier disappointments, it was his extraordinary fellow-feeling that egged the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") on, to address the worldlings once more, as in the last decad, pretty sure of bringing them round. Even the amazing simplicity of the Lord in His ‘[Arcā](/definition/arca#history "show Arcā definitions")’ manifestation, the sure plank, according to the Āḻvār, for weaning them, made no visible impact on the unfortunate fellows wallowing in the sty of worldly [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), much to the chagrin of the Āḻvār. The Āḻvār, however, drowns his disappointment, in this decad in the blissful contemplation of service unto the Lord’s devotees, the logical conclusion of service unto the Lord, in keeping with the essential [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") of the Individual soul.

In ‘Periya Tirumoḻi’ (8-10-3), Tirumaṅkai Āḻvār has declared that, as a result of [learning](/definition/learning#history "show learning definitions") the eight-lettered ‘Tirumantra’, he became a vassal of the devotees of the Lord, enshrined in Tirukkaṇṇapuram. Service unto the Lord’s devotees, as well, is implied in the middle part of ‘Tirumantra’, viz, ‘[namaḥ](/definition/nama#vaishnavism "show namaḥ definitions")’. It is held by some that service unto the Lord’s devotees is implicit in letter *A* of ‘[Praṇava](/definition/pranava#vaishnavism "show Praṇava definitions")’ (Aum), with its discarded dative caseending, which brings into focus the soul’s dependence on the Lord; others say that the middle letter *U* of ‘Praṇava’ emphasises the exclusive dependence of the soul on the Lord and that the farthest point upto which dependence on the Lord could go, by virtue of His unbounded love for His devotees, would be the individual soul’s utter devotion to those devotees as well. This is readily borne out by our common experience in the world of human affairs also. It, however, matters not whether this particular meaning goes with the word ‘namaḥ’ or letter ‘A’ or letter ‘U’ of the Praṇava (AUM). All the same, our great preceptors have thought it fit to link this concept with the word ‘namaḥ’ which helps to discard the rags of ‘I-ness’ and ‘My-ness’, enveloping and disfiguring the individual soul.

Śatrugna provided the shining example of unflinching service marked by extraordinary devotion to [Bharata](/definition/bharata#vaishnavism "show Bharata definitions"), a great devotee of [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions"). Soon after the [marriage](/definition/marriage#history "show marriage definitions") of the four Princes, in [Mithilā](/definition/mithila#history "show Mithilā definitions"), Bharata had an invitation from his uncle, [king](/definition/king#history "show king definitions") Yudājit of [Kekaya](/definition/kekaya#vaishnavism "show Kekaya definitions") (perhaps, modern [Greece](/definition/greece#history "show Greece definitions")) to go with him to that country. Bharata set out on the said journey, on an auspicious day, appropriate to his [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") star. The inseparable Śatrugna also accompanied Bharata, out of his dutiful love for the latter, although the former had no invitation, as such, from King Yudājit nor did the day of the commencement of the journey suit his (Śatrugna’s) birth star. According to Śatrugna whose devotion to Bharata was of such a high order, there was hardly any need for all these, as he considered himself no mo re than a part and parcel of Bharata and not as a separate entity.


