+++
title = "351 Pasuram 3.7.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஆளும் பரமனை கண்ணனை ஆழிப் பிரான் தன்னை,  
தோளும் ஓர் நான்கு உடைத் தூமணி வண்ணன் எம்மான்தன்னை  
தாளும் தடக் கையும் கூப்பிப் பணியும் அவர் கண்டீர்,  
நாளும் பிறப்பிடைதோறு எம்மை ஆளுடை நாதரே.

āḷum paramaṉai kaṇṇaṉai āḻip pirāṉ taṉṉai,  
tōḷum ōr nāṉku uṭait tūmaṇi vaṇṇaṉ emmāṉtaṉṉai  
tāḷum taṭak kaiyum kūppip paṇiyum avar kaṇṭīr,  
nāḷum piṟappiṭaitōṟu emmai āḷuṭai nātarē.

**English translation of verse 3.7.2:**

They are the Masters that enslave me daily and [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") after life,  
Who do with joined palms and legs, prostrate  
Unto Kaṇṇaṉ, the Lord Supreme, the Benefactor great,  
Holding the discus, of the hue of blue gem immaculate,  
With peerless shoulders four, the reigning Chief.

**Notes**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") affirms that those that are swayed by the Lord’s exquisite charm, in all its details, are his perennial masters.

\(ii\) *Reigning Chief*: If the Lord’s devotees are the Āḻvār’s masters, how could the Lord be called the reigning Chief? This *prima facie* contradiction is resolved by holding that the Lord’s reign over His subjects is directed towards reclaiming them and enlisting them in the service of His devotees. Right in the opening [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") of the first of his ten scintillating stanzas, Tiruppāṇ Āḻvār depicts this special feature of the Lord.

\(iii\) *Lord Kaṇṇaṉ*: By His devoted service unto His elder brother [Balarāma](/definition/balarama#vaishnavism "show Balarāma definitions"), a reincarnation of Ādiśeṣa, Śrī [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") has demonstrated the importance of service unto devotees.

\(iv\) *The Shoulders four*: The Lord doles out the four ‘Puruṣārtas’, the ultimate values, as elected by the votaries, with His four arms, one for each. Once, when Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar happened to be in Tirukkōṭṭiyūr, he was asked by Anantāḻvāṉ whether the Lord is seen in His Celestium ([Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions")-[Parama](/definition/parama#vaishnavism "show Parama definitions") [pada](/definition/pada#vaishnavism "show pada definitions")) with two arms or four arms. Bhaṭṭārya replied that the ‘Ekāyanas’ (Madhvās) hold that the Lord has only two arms while others say four. In the [temple](/definition/temple#history "show temple definitions") at [Śrīraṅgam](/definition/shrirangam#vaishnavism "show Śrīraṅgam definitions"), the stationary image of Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions"), reclining on the [Serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show Serpent definitions")-bed, in the Sanctum Sanctorum (Known as Periya Perumāḷ) is seen by us, with the naked eye, as having only two arms while those, with spiritual vision, see four arms and even more. Tirupppāṇāḻvār has seen Lord Raṅganātha with four arms, as set forth in his hymns (Amalaṉātipirāṉ-7). Maṇḍodari, wife of [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions"), saw the ultra-mundane form in [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions"), standing beside her fallen husband and described the former as the one beyond matter, the Sustainer, wielding the Conch, Discus and Mace. Śrī [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") was generally seen only with two arms; [Hanumān](/definition/hanuman#vaishnavism "show Hanumān definitions"), however, alluded to many aims (*bhāhavaḥ*, [Vālmīki](/definition/valmiki#vaishnavism "show Vālmīki definitions") [Rāmāyaṇa](/definition/ramayana#vaishnavism "show Rāmāyaṇa definitions") IV-3-14). Kṛṣṇa was seen by [Vasudeva](/definition/vasudeva#vaishnavism "show Vasudeva definitions") and [Devakī](/definition/devaki#vaishnavism "show Devakī definitions"), with four arms, right at [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions"), and He concealed the two extra arms, as desired by His revered father. And then, on the [battlefield](/definition/battle-field#history "show battlefield definitions") at [Kurukṣetra](/definition/kurukshetra#vaishnavism "show Kurukṣetra definitions"), [Arjuna](/definition/arjuna#vaishnavism "show Arjuna definitions") prayed that he be allowed to see Kṛṣṇa back again with four arms instead of the thousands of arms he saw in His universal Form ([Viśvarūpa](/definition/vishvarupa#vaishnavism "show Viśvarūpa definitions")) a little while ago (Bhagavad Gīṭā XI-46). In Rāmāyaṇa, [Uttara](/definition/uttara#vaishnavism "show Uttara definitions") [Kāṇḍa](/definition/kanda#history "show Kāṇḍa definitions") 8-26, Sage [Agastya](/definition/agastya#vaishnavism "show Agastya definitions") addressed Śrī Rāma, as. “Thou art [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions"), the ancient, the four-armed”. Nevertheless, one need not make a fetish of this, as four-handedness need not necessarily be a special [sign](/definition/sign#history "show sign definitions") of Divinity to wrest allegiance from mankind. (It is learnt that a four-handed human form is kept embalmed in Fyzabad museum near [Ayodhyā](/definition/ayodhya#vaishnavism "show Ayodhyā definitions"). Would it become worthy of worship? No, not at all.)

\(v\) *Prostrate with joined legs and palms:*

‘*Joined legs*’ indicate immobility, ‘*ananyagatitva*’, or non-dependence on others—‘nowhere else to go’, in plain [language](/definition/language#history "show language definitions").

‘*Joined palms*’ devote ‘*Ākiñcanya*’ or absence of any merit in the supplicant, attracting the Lord’s grace; in other words, it is only the Lord’s ‘*nirhetuka [kṛpā](/definition/kripa#vaishnavism "show kṛpā definitions")*’, spontaneous or gratuitous grace that can deliver the goods.


