+++
title = "359 Pasuram 3.7.10"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

அடி ஆர்ந்த வையம் உண்டு ஆல் இலை அன்னவசம் செய்யும,  
படி யாதும் இல் குழவிப்படி எந்தை பிரான் தனக்கு,  
அடியார் அடியார் தம் அடியார் அடியார் தமக்கு  
அடியார் அடியார் தம் அடியார் அடியோங்களே.

aṭi ārnta vaiyam uṇṭu āl ilai aṉṉavacam ceyyuma,  
paṭi yātum il kuḻavippaṭi entai pirāṉ taṉakku,  
aṭiyār aṭiyār tam aṭiyār aṭiyār tamakku  
aṭiyār aṭiyār tam aṭiyār aṭiyōṅkaḷē.

**English translation of verse 3.7.10:**

Vassals we are of the last in the chain  
Of the vassals of the devotees of our Liege-Lord  
Who as mere babe peerless did recline  
On a fig-leaf, holding the seven worlds,  
In His stomach, which earlier He did span.

**Notes**

\(i\) The Āḻvār affirms that he is the vassal unto those that stand last in the chain of the Lord’s devotees, sure and steadfast, lost in admiration of His once spanning all the worlds in just three strides and then sustaining, in His stomach, all the worlds, during the period of deluge.

\(ii\) The worlds devoured by the Lord during the period of deluge are just those measured by Him earlier and thus come up to His feet only, that is, they are no more than the size of His feet.

\(iii\) A mere babe lying on a fig-leaf, floating on the huge expanse of water, containing within its stomach all the world, is indeed a wonderful achievement, beyond imagination, which the Supreme Lord is capable of, the unique blending of the incompatibles. Attracting the Āḻvār by this means, He becomes his Liege-Lord and, in the process, the Āḻvār wants to be at the bottommost rung of His devotees, even as He is the top-most, with none equal to or above Him. (Mukunda-mālā, śloka 27).

\(iv\) Here is an important observation of Nampiḷḷai, which has to be studied in continuation of the notes below stanza 9 of this decad.

> “Even if we are not able to translate into practice this lofty > sentiment of the Āḻvār for obvious reasons, it will suffice if we > delightfully contemplate on it and are thus aware that the Āḻvār > thought on these lines”.


