+++
title = "367 Pasuram 3.8.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கண்களால் காண வருங்கொல்? என்று ஆசையால்,  
மண் கொண்ட வாமனன் ஏற மகிழ்ந்து செல்,  
பண் கொண்ட புள்ளின் சிறகு ஒலி பாவித்து,  
திண் கொள்ள ஓர்க்கும் கிடந்து என் செவிகளே.

kaṇkaḷāl kāṇa varuṅkol? eṉṟu ācaiyāl,  
maṇ koṇṭa vāmaṉaṉ ēṟa makiḻntu cel,  
paṇ koṇṭa puḷḷiṉ ciṟaku oli pāvittu,  
tiṇ koḷḷa ōrkkum kiṭantu eṉ cevikaḷē.

**English translation of verse 3.8.5:**

My ears long to see Vāmaṉaṉ (the Lord),  
Who (from [Bali](/definition/bali#vaishnavism "show Bali definitions")) got hold of the land,  
Moving on His merry mount, ([Garuḍa](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍa definitions"))  
And intently hear the sweet sound.  
Of the tuneful wings of that [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions").

**Notes**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions")’s ears long both to see and hear and, therefore, drew up a picture, as above. The Lord moving on His merry mount, Garuḍa, must be seen by the ears which should also listen to the sweet strains emanating from the wings of that angelic bird, in flight, like unto the tuneful [Sāma](/definition/sama#history "show Sāma definitions") [Veda](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Veda definitions") (Bṛhat and Rantra Sāma).

\(ii\) As [Vāmana](/definition/vamana#history "show Vāmana definitions") or Tṛvikrama [Tṛvikrama], the Lord did not press into service His standing vehicle, Garuḍa and yet, what is intended to convey here is that the Lord would fly, here and there, to reclaim His straying possessions.

\(iii\) *Intently hear*: Hearing the [music](/definition/music#history "show music definitions") of the wings of Garuḍa to the exclusion of everything else, not even the Lord or His mount. Even as the Āḻvār is now seen engrossed in the music of the wings of Garuḍa, Rukmiṇi was thrilled and enraptured by the sound from Śrī [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions")’s conch ([Pāñcajanya](/definition/pancajanya#vaishnavism "show Pāñcajanya definitions")), at the crucial moment near about the [Devī](/definition/devi#vaishnavism "show Devī definitions")’s [temple](/definition/temple#history "show temple definitions") where she was anxiously awaiting Him, the great Rescuer. And then, when [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") was tortured into believing that [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") was dead. [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions") holding out before her the severed head of an illusory Rāma the heartening sound came to her from [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions")’s bow, right from the sea-shore, and enabled her to see through the dirty game of Rāvaṇa.


