+++
title = "371 Pasuram 3.8.9"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கொள்வன் நான் மாவலி மூவடி தா என்ற  
கள்வனே, கஞ்சனை வஞ்சித்து வாணனை  
உள் வன்மை தீர, ஓர் ஆயிரம் தோள் துணித்த  
புள் வல்லாய், உன்னை எஞ்ஞான்று பொருந்துவனே?

koḷvaṉ nāṉ māvali mūvaṭi tā eṉṟa  
kaḷvaṉē, kañcaṉai vañcittu vāṇaṉai  
uḷ vaṉmai [tīra](/definition/tira#history "show tīra definitions"), ōr āyiram tōḷ tuṇitta  
puḷ vallāy, uṉṉai eññāṉṟu poruntuvaṉē?

**English translation of verse 3.8.9:**

Oh Lord, [flying](/definition/flying#history "show flying definitions") the [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions") ([Garuḍa](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍa definitions"))!  
You did, on the sly, from Māvali demand  
Three strides of land;  
Kañcaṉ’s plans treacherous you foiled,  
[Vāṇaṉ](/definition/vanan#history "show Vāṇaṉ definitions")’s mental attitude you dispelled  
And lopped his arms thousand;  
When do I get unto you bound?

**Notes**

\(i\) [Indra](/definition/indra#vaishnavism "show Indra definitions"), Chief of the [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions") was dispossessed of his Kingdom by Māvali ([Mahā](/definition/maha#history "show Mahā definitions") [Bali](/definition/bali#vaishnavism "show Bali definitions")), the Asura Chief. The former prayed to Lord [Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions") for the restoration of the lost Kingdom. But then, Mahā Bali was a generous donor, although he belonged to the Asura clan. So, the Lord had to adopt the peculiar method of seeking alms from Bali for getting back the lost domain. Not being conversant with the art of begging, the Lord, came down as [Vāmana](/definition/vamana#history "show Vāmana definitions"), the little lad, addressed Bali, by name, instead of the adulatory form of address, usually resorted to, by seasoned [beggars](/definition/beggar#history "show beggars definitions"). Bali didn’t mind it so much, seeing that the supplicant was but a lad, but when the demand, made by the lad, was just three paces of land, the pompous donor didn’t take it seriously. Looking at the indifference of Bali to the seemingly paltry demand, Vāmanamūrti reiterated His demand and compelled Bali’s attention.

\(ii\) Kañcaṉ ([Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions")) kept himself in the background and hit upon many a treacherous plan to kill Śrī [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"). The felon of an uncle would not indulge in a frontal attack on Kṛṣṇa, the nephew, and was hoping that one or the other of the several agencies energised by him would be able to kill Kṛṣṇa, so that he (Kaṃsa) might bemoan, in public, the loss of his nephew.

Alas! all his plans were thwarted by the Divine Lad, who vanquished the formidable array of His opponents and finally slew Kaṃsa himself.

\(iii\) Vāṇaṉ ([Bāṇāsura](/definition/banasura#vaishnavism "show Bāṇāsura definitions")), an avowed enemy of Lord Viṣṇu, was, however, an ardent votary of minor deities. The Lord, appeared before him, mounted on Garuḍa, disabused him (Bāṇāsura) of his heretical notion of God-head and revealed His supremacy, chopping off his thousand arms, like felling trees in the [forest](/definition/forest#history "show forest definitions"). See also detailed notes under III-10-4.


