+++
title = "376 Pasuram 3.9.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

சொன்னால் விரோதம் இது ஆகிலும் சொல்லுவான் கேண்மினோ,  
என் நாவில் இன்கவி யான் ஒருவர்க்கும் கொடுக்கிலேன்,  
தென்னா தெனா என்று வண்டு முரல் திருவேங்கடத்து,  
என் ஆனை என் அப்பன் எம் பெருமான் உளனாகவே.

coṉṉāl virōtam itu ākilum colluvāṉ kēṇmiṉō,  
eṉ nāvil iṉkavi yāṉ oruvarkkum koṭukkilēṉ,  
teṉṉā teṉā eṉṟu vaṇṭu mural tiruvēṅkaṭattu,  
eṉ āṉai eṉ appaṉ em perumāṉ uḷaṉākavē.

**English translation of verse 3.9.1:**

Listen, Ye, men, let me my mind speak out  
Although it may not by you be liked;  
The songs sweet that from my tongue sprout  
Laud none but my Liege-Lord  
At Tiruvēṅkaṭam, by humming bees swarmed,  
My Benefactor great, majestic like elephant;  
Waste I shan’t on anyone else my poetic talent.

**Notes**

\(i\) The Āḻvār does not straightaway say what he intends to preach, in this decad. He begins by stating his own case, namely, that his tongue shall sing exclusively the glory of the Lord at Tiruvēṅkaṭam. the holy Mount and its fauna and flora. The individual Soul is as good as non-existent, when it does not turn its thoughts on God and sustain itself by singing His glory. But, here is an extraordinary situation, the Lord stationing Himself in near-by Tiruvēṅkaṭan in order to sustain Himself through the songs sung by the Āḻvār. There is, therefore, no question of the Āḻvār turning his attention on any one else and, by saying so, he wants the men of the world to emulate him and follow in his foot-steps.

\(ii\) The Āḻvār is quite aware that calling upon the worldlings to desist from praising the frail humans, the so-called earthly Lords, will not be palatable to these short-sighted folks, as that would mean depriving them of the odds and ends, the petty favours they may otherwise obtain. Nevertheless, he advises them, unable to stand the sight of their suffering, like unto the advice tendered by

\(i\) Sītā, the Divine Mother to the demoniac Rāvaṇa, (ii) Prahlāda unto Hiraṇya and the fellow—pupils and (iii) Vibhīṣaṇa unto a terribly hostile Rāvaṇa.


