+++
title = "378 Pasuram 3.9.3"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஒழிவு ஒன்று இல்லாத பல் ஊழிதோறு ஊழி நிலாவப், போம்  
வழியைத் தரும் நங்கள் வானவர் ஈசனை நிற்கப் போய்,  
கழிய மிக நல்லவான் கவி கொண்டு புலவீர்காள்,  
இழியக் கருதி ஓர் மானிடம் பாடல் என் ஆவதே.

oḻivu oṉṟu illāta pal ūḻitōṟu ūḻi nilāvap, pōm  
vaḻiyait tarum naṅkaḷ vāṉavar īcaṉai niṟkap pōy,  
kaḻiya mika nallavāṉ [kavi](/definition/kavi#vaishnavism "show kavi definitions") koṇṭu pulavīrkāḷ,  
iḻiyak karuti ōr māṉiṭam pāṭal eṉ āvatē.

**English translation of verse 3.9.3:**

Ye, men of [learning](/definition/learning#history "show learning definitions"), What do you gain at all  
By lauding the petty humans [thro](/definition/thro#history "show thro definitions")’ songs superfine,  
Shutting your eyes to the glory of the Overlord of Celestials,  
Who shall unto you vouchsafe everlasting service divine?

**Notes**

\(i\) In his address to the poets of the world, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") appeals to their good sense and discriminative faculty, to discern for themselves that the Supreme Lord, served and adored by the whole lot of them in the high [heavens](/definition/heaven#history "show heavens definitions"), the repository of innumerable auspicious qualities, is alone praiseworthy and one can praise Him till the end of time and still cannot exhaust His glory. And to these who adore Him He vouchsafes the eternal bliss of serving Him. Again [poetry](/definition/poetry#history "show poetry definitions") comes into its own only when it lauds His glory and not when it is profaned by making it the [medium](/definition/medium#history "show medium definitions") for eulogising the worthless humans.

\(ii\) And now, look at the other picture, dark and dismal. The so-called big men of the Earth these poets run after, get scent of the latter’s approach and run away from them for [fear](/definition/fear#history "show fear definitions") of having to bestow gifts. And then, the poets overshoot the mark and make even people very much amenable to flattery suspect that they ate either being fooled or the cap does not fit them. In this absurd chase for illusory gains, petty and ephemeral, the poets, far from edifying themselves, descend to the bottom-most depths of depravity, just the opposite of what they intend to achieve, all because they have chosen the wrong theme for their poems notwithstanding their literary excellence.


