+++
title = "393 Pasuram 3.10.5"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

இடர் இன்றியே ஒரு நாள் ஒரு போழ்தில் எல்லா உலகும் கழிய,  
படர் புகழ்ப் பார்த்தனும் வைதிகனும் உடன் ஏற திண்தேர்கடவி,  
சுடர் ஒளியாய் நின்ற தன்னுடைச் சோதியில் வைதிகன் பிள்ளைகளை,  
உடலொடும் கொண்டு கொடுத்தவனைப் பற்றி ஒன்றும் துயர் இலனே.

iṭar iṉṟiyē oru nāḷ oru pōḻtil ellā ulakum kaḻiya,  
paṭar pukaḻp pārttaṉum vaitikaṉum uṭaṉ ēṟa tiṇtērkaṭavi,  
cuṭar oḷiyāy niṉṟa taṉṉuṭaic cōtiyil vaitikaṉ piḷḷaikaḷai,  
uṭaloṭum koṇṭu koṭuttavaṉaip paṟṟi oṉṟum tuyar ilaṉē.

**English translation of verse 3.10.5:**

In me there isn’t the slightest tinge of grief,  
Having attained my gracious Lord who delivered  
The lost sons of a ‘Vaidik’ back to him quite safe,  
Taking him and Arjuna in a chariot strong that covered  
The upper regions, reclaiming from the Heaven resplendent the sons (four).

**Notes**

\(i\) The Āḻvār asserts that there is no question of his being confronted by grief of any kind, having taken sole refuge in the Supreme Lord, Who, as Kṛṣṇa, went light into Heaven, reclaimed the four missing sons of a ‘Vaidik’ (Brahmin) and delivered them back to him as promised.

\(ii\) The ‘Vaidik’, referred to in (i) above, lost three sons successively; immediately they emerged from the mother’s womb, the babes disappeared. When his wife conceived again, the Brahmin prayed to Śrī Kṛṣṇa to ensure the safe retention of at least the current progeny. At the time of confinement, however, Arjuna dissuaded Kṛṣṇa from disengaging himself from a ritual currently going on and undertook to look after the Vaidik’s affair himself. But then, Arjuna failed miserably despite his standing guard at the Vaidik’s house, blocking, with arrows, entry into the house by any outsider, not even air. The progeny disappeared as usual soon after emergence from the mother’s womb.

The Vaidik bitterly reproached Arjuna but Kṛṣṇa appeased the grief-stricken brahmin, promising to get him back all the four missing children. Just in one day the three of them ascended the upper regions in a mighty chariot specially commissioned for the purpose. Detaining the Vaidik, Arjuna and the Chariot Just outside Heaven, Śri Kṛṣṇa alone entered the dazzling Heaven and located all the four children in the company of His Divine Consorts there, who longed for seeing Him in the exquisite Formof Kṛṣṇa and lifted the Vaidik’s sons, one by one, unto Heaven, in order to secure their objective. The children were thus recovered, safe and sound, and restored to the Vaidik, a grand and thrilling feat which none but the Supreme Lord could perform.


