+++
title = "402 Introduction to Section 4.1"

+++
The last centum ended on a very happy note, an exuberant Āḻvār, gratefully conscious of the felicities showered on him by a loving Lord, declaring that he is above wants of any kind and free from afflictions of any kind. Just the opposite is, however, the plight of the ‘Saṃsāris’ (worldlings), and it was out of an irrepressible fellow-feeling and deep compassion that the Āḻvār tried to bring them all, on a par with him and advised them in III-9 (coṉṉāl virōtam) to give up running after the petty humans and their petty wealth. The desired response was, however, not forthcoming presumably because the men whom the Āḻvār then addressed were thinking in terms of somehow enriching themselves by waiting on the so called earthly potentates. And yet, the Āḻvār’s tender solicitude turns his attention on to them once again, and that too, so soon. In this decad, he impresses upon his addressees that, for all their mountainous labours, they get much less than a mouse, in return, the so-called wealth they acquire being after all much-too-flimsy and fleeting. So saying, the Āḻvār calls upon these straying subjects to realise the importance of holding on to the Supreme Lord as an end in itself, the wealth supreme and everlasting.

In VII-16 of Bhagavad Gītā, the Lord has referred to four types of votaries propitiating Him. These are: (1) Ārta, the sorrow stricken ones who wish to get back their lost wealth; (2) *Arthārthī*, the poor men craving for wealth and power, (3) Jijñāsu, the seeker of the self, that is, emancipation from the cycle of birth and death and enjoyment of the disembodied soul in the ultra-mundane sphere, known as ‘Kaivalya Mokṣa’ and (4) Jñāni, the gnostic, fully alive to the essential nature of the Individual Soul as the sole servitor of the Lord, seeking the Lord as the final goal and looking upon Him as the sole Means for attaining the end in view.

All the four categories of supplicants have, however, been labelled as ‘Sukṛts’ (persons with good deeds to their credit) although all but the ‘Jñānis’ would, strictly speaking, deserve to be termed as ‘Dhuṣkṛt’, craving, as they do, for the lower or inferior fruits. This is because all of them seek whatever they want from the Supreme Lord, instead of committing the further transgression of cooling their heels elsewhere, that is, at the door steps of the minor deities or the so-called earthly magnates. Of course, the Lord would no: mince matters any more, and He brings out, in un-ambiguous terms, the special greatness and glory of the ‘Jñāni’ in the three succeeding ślokas (7-17 to 19). The Jñāni, engrossed in the Lord as the highest goal, is dear to the Lord beyond words, and is looked upon by the Lord as His very self. The Āḻvār is only echoing this theme in this decad, pointing out the Superior stance of the Jñāni, which the people of the world should strive after, and deprecating the pursuit after the intransient riches and the inferior goal of ‘Kaivalya Mokṣa’.

For facility of recapitulation it may be pointed out that the Āḻvār has been similarly addressing the world, off and on, with an eye on its uplift and deliverance, vide 1-2, II-8, IIḷ-6 and III-9.


