+++
title = "415 Introduction to Section 4.2"

+++
In the eighth decad of the third centum, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") and his sense-organs intensely longed for the enjoyment of Ged, in a spirit of competitive exuberance. In the three succeeding decads, this God-hunger was temporarily displaced, partly by the Āḻvār’s preoccupation with his fellow-beings and partly by his joyous recounting of the various benefits conferred on him by the bounteous Lord. And now, in this decad, the Āḻvār’s God-hunger has lifted up its head once again, the recoiling, as it were, of the Āḻvār’s advice to the worḻdlingson the Āḻvār himself. Well, this is precisely what happened when [Vibhīṣaṇa](/definition/vibhishana#vaishnavism "show Vibhīṣaṇa definitions") advised [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions"). Vibhīṣaṇa’s advice, as we all know, fell on deaf eats but, at the same time, it led to Vibhīṣaṇa himself getting into [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions")’s camp. And then, take the case of [Prahlāda](/definition/prahlada#vaishnavism "show Prahlāda definitions"). The little lad's advice to an unresponsive and uncompromising fiend of a father (Hiṟaṇya) only tended to enrich the former’s God-love. The Āḻvār’s God-love having been excited, he longs for the Lord’s vision, as during His [Avatāras](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāras definitions"), in the days gone-by. So deep is his longing that the frustration resulting from its non-fulfilment renders the Āḻvār insensate, like a female forsaken by her [lover](/definition/lover#history "show lover definitions") after their erstwhile union. The mother steps in, once again, to describe the critical condition of her daughter, the Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī.

It is worth recalling, in this context, how Bhīmasena prayed to [Hanumān](/definition/hanuman#vaishnavism "show Hanumān definitions"), when the former met the latter several thousands of years after Śrī [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") had gone back to the Celestium, that Hanumān be pleased to exhibit the gigantic form he had assumed while [flying](/definition/flying#history "show flying definitions") across the ocean to get into [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"). Well, Bhīmasena was nor that ludicrous sort to ask for the impossible. Actually, he was well aware cf. Hanumān’s great prowess and his ability to meet the demand in question. Likewise, the Āḻvār was also quite conscious of the Lord’s capacity to take him through back periods, [cutting](/definition/cutting#history "show cutting definitions") across even the proverbially irretrievable past. This knowledge of the Āḻvār, coupled with his irrepressible longing to enjoy the Lord’s past Avatāras, could very well form the background for this decad.


