+++
title = "433 Pasuram 4.3.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கண்ணி எனது உயிர் காதல் கனகச் சோதி முடிமுதலா,  
எண் இல் பல்கலன்களும் ஏலும் ஆடையும் அஃதே,  
நண்ணி மூவுலகும் நவிற்றும் கீர்த்தியும் அஃதே,  
கண்ணன் எம் பிரான் எம்மான் கால சக்கரத்தானுக்கே.

[kaṇṇi](/definition/kanni#history "show kaṇṇi definitions") eṉatu uyir kātal kaṉakac cōti muṭimutalā,  
eṇ il palkalaṉkaḷum ēlum āṭaiyum aḵtē,  
naṇṇi mūvulakum naviṟṟum kīrttiyum aḵtē,  
kaṇṇaṉ em pirāṉ emmāṉ [kāla](/definition/kala#vaishnavism "show kāla definitions") cakkarattāṉukkē.

**English translation of verse 4.3.5:**

Unto Lord Kaṇṇaṉ, my benefactor great, holding the discus that ‘Time’ controls,  
Delectable like the garland fine is my soul;  
Deems He my love as His gleaming [gold](/definition/gold#history "show gold definitions") crown smart,  
The [jewels](/definition/jewel#history "show jewels definitions") innumerable on His person, the silken robes appropriate  
And the praises the three worlds [heap](/definition/heap#history "show heap definitions") on Him, their aggregate.

**Notes**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") speaks of the Lord’s adoration, strong and steadfast, of his soul and inordinate love for him. Having made the Āḻvār subsist in the real sense, the Godbound, rejuvenated [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") of the Āḻvār is as dear to Him as His famous garland ‘[Vaijayanti](/definition/vaijayanti#vaishnavism "show Vaijayanti definitions")’. And what more? The Lord sees the Āḻvār’s God-love as manifesting itself in His dazzling crown and the numerous jewels on His glowing person as well as the silken robes befitting Him. Again, He sees in the Āḻvār’s devotion for Him, the aggregate of the praises heaped on Him by all the worlds.

\(ii\) *Controller of the wheel of Time*: Had it not been for the fact that the Lord is the Controller of the past, present and future, He could not have fulfilled the aspiration of the Āḻvār to have a glimpse of His past [Avatāras](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāras definitions"), as set out in the last decad. As a matter of fact, the present decad is only the outpouring of the Āḻvār, in grateful acknowledgement of the Lord’s extraordinary compliance.

\(iii\) Speaking about the Lord’s acceptance of the Āḻvār’s devotion as equivalent to the silken robes of His choice, here is an interesting anecdote:

One day, a Dhobi of the holy men of Śriraṅgam brought the clothes, *laundered by him with loving care*, to be worn by the [Idol](/definition/idol#history "show Idol definitions") of Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions"), to the great [Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions"), Rāmānuja first, for his approbation. Very pleased with the extra-fine work of the [washerman](/definition/washerman#history "show washerman definitions"), Śrī Rāmānuja led him straight to the [Shrine](/definition/shrine#history "show Shrine definitions") and requested Lord Raṅganātha to have a look at the clothes, laundered so well, befitting His august Self. The Lord not only condescended to signify His loving approval but also declared, “For the loving service of this washerman, we now grant reprieve to that other washerman, who offended us during our [Avatāra](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāra definitions") as [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions")”. It may be recalled that, when Kṛṣṇa and [Balarāma](/definition/balarama#vaishnavism "show Balarāma definitions") went to [Mathurā](/definition/mathura#vaishnavism "show Mathurā definitions"), escorted by Akrūra, the dhobi, who washed the clothes of [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions") [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions"), was passing along with a [donkey](/definition/donkey#history "show donkey definitions")-load of laundered clothes of the royalty. He, however, declined to supply the clothes demanded of him by the Divine Brothers. For that offence, committed nearly four thousand years earlier, the Lord, in His Iconic Form as Raṅganātha, now granted him pardon because of the devotion of the washerman ushered into His presence by Śrī Rāmānuja. This is a case of vicarious reward, rather, expiation, betokening the Lord’s adoration of the true devotion of His Subjects.


