+++
title = "439 Pasuram 4.3.11"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

உய்வு உபாயம் மற்று இன்மை தேறி கண்ணன் ஒண் கழல்கள் மேல்  
செய்ய தாமரைப் பழனத் தென்னன் குருகூர்ச் சடகோபன்,  
பொய் இல் பாடல் ஆயிரத்துள் இவையும் பத்தும் வல்லார்கள்,  
வையம் மன்னி வீற்றிருந்து விண்ணும் ஆள்வர் மண்ணூடே. (2)

uyvu upāyam maṟṟu iṉmai tēṟi kaṇṇaṉ oṇ kaḻalkaḷ mēl  
ceyya tāmaraip paḻaṉat teṉṉaṉ kurukūrc caṭakōpaṉ,  
poy il pāṭal āyirattuḷ ivaiyum pattum vallārkaḷ,  
vaiyam maṉṉi vīṟṟiruntu viṇṇum āḷvar maṇṇūṭē. (2)

**English translation of verse 4.3.11:**

Those well-versed in these songs ten,  
Out of the veracious thousand composed by Caṭakōpaṉ  
Of lovely Teṉ kurukūr, with lotus ponds and fields fertile,  
Adoring the comely feet of Kaṇṇaṉ, for sheer survival,  
Will for long flourish in this abode  
And rule as well, right from here, the heavenly abode.

**Notes**

\(i\) The Āḻvār spoke about the love that subsists between him and his beloved, the Supreme Lord, in this decad, not because he could talk about it, in any appreciable measure, but for his mere survival.

\(ii\) Even as Brahma assured Sage Vālmiki, that not a word in the great Kāvya (Rāmāyaṇa) would be untrue, the Dramiḍa Veda (Tiruvāymoḻi) is of unquestionable veracity.

The truthfulness, claimed for the Sanskrit Vedas, equally holds good, in respect of the Tamil Veda.

\(iii\) Prior to his being brought into the Śrī Vaiṣṇava fold, the illustrious Preceptor, Nañcīyar (formerly known as Vedānti) was a staunch exponent of Advaita philosophy. Śrī Parāśara Bhaṭṭar conquered Vedānti in a religious disquisition, held at the latter’s home town (Melkōt in Karnataka State) and thereafter, Vedānti, turned into the ascetic Nañcīyar, got himself inducted by Bhaṭṭārya into the rapturous realm of the ‘Divya Prabhandas’. Little wonder, an intellectual giant that Nañcīyar was, he soon mastered the four thousand hymns of the Āḻvārs and imparted special lustre to the commentaries thereon. He longed to Listen to the discourses at the feet of Bhaṭṭārya but the latter passed away at the tender age of 32. Whenever Nañcīyar recited this Song, he suffered the pangs of separation from the Master, all the more.

\(iv\) Verily, the chanters of this decad would be able to grant passport to heaven, to the people of their choice, right from here, betokening their sway over heaven.


