+++
title = "454 Introduction to Section 4.5"

+++
If the Āḻvār was seen in the last decad in a heavy state of depression, it was because the Lord intended it to be so. Even as hunger is the pre-requisite for consuming food, for God-enjoyment in its entirety, a consuming passion of the highest intensity, as seen in the climactic tenth decad of the tenth centum, is imperative. Meanwhile, what is happening is a course of Shock-treatment, working the Āḻvār up to the required pitch. By experiencing, alternately, the bliss of Divine presence and rapport and the cruel pangs of separation from Him, the Āḻvār’s appetite for God-enjoyment is whetted and his divine love and wisdom enriched all the time. If the Lord had stayed away from the Āḻvār altogether without obliging him with His vision, now and then, both the Lord and the world would have lost him. Apart from the afore-mentioned technique adopted by the Lord to enrich and intensify the Āḻvār’s God-love, his continued stay in this abode has enriched the world through his hymns of unparalleled excellence, a rich fare for the devotees revelling in sweet contemplation of the Lord’s auspicious traits and wondrous deeds. This is yet another purpose of the Lord in lengthening the Āḻvār’s stay in this abode. And so, we see in this decad the very antithesis of the Āḻvār’s harrowing experience in the last decad; his joy knows no bounds and leads him on to exclaim, “Could there be any want for me hereafter?”, “Is there any one equal to me in all the world?” and so on. The structure of this decad suggests that the Āḻvār is right at the peak of divine bliss and, in the opinion of Nañcīyar, this could as well have been the very last decad of this grand hymnal.

Unlike the spurious objects which misled the Āḻvār in the last decad, he now visualises the Lord’s cosmic wealth in all its facts. The Lord seems to call upon the Alvar to sing His glory to his heart’s fill, adding that His cosmic wealth can acquire special lustre only through his laudation. Accordingly, the Āḻvār sings, with cymbals in hand, and goes into raptures.


