+++
title = "46 Pasuram 1.4.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

என் செய்ய தாமரைக்கண் பெருமானார்க்கு என் தூதாய்  
என் செய்யும் உரைத்தக்கால்? இனக் குயில்காள் நீர் அலிரே?  
முன் செய்த முழுவினையால் திருவடிக்கீழ்க் குற்றேவல்  
முன் செய்ய முயலாதேன் அகல்வதுவோ? விதியினமே.

eṉ ceyya tāmaraikkaṇ perumāṉārkku eṉ tūtāy  
eṉ ceyyum uraittakkāl? iṉak kuyilkāḷ nīr alirē?  
muṉ ceyta muḻuviṉaiyāl tiruvaṭikkīḻk kuṟṟēval  
muṉ ceyya muyalātēṉ akalvatuvō? vitiyiṉamē.

**Preamble:**

The love-intoxicated [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") beckoned the stork pair, in the preceding stanza, to carry a message to the Lord but the contents of the message are now revealed by him to a band of Kōels, This kind of confusion only reveals the intensity of the Āḻvār’s God-love, the ecstatic imbalance of mind.

**English translation of verse 1.4.2:**

Oh, ye happy band of Kōels, what will unto ye happen If you conveyed my message to my lotus-eyed Lord? Well, aren’t you the familiar lot? should it be decreed That I, who, from His service, did all these days abstain because of my past sins, be still kept away from His feet?

**Notes**

\(i\) There are many points of comparison between the Kōels and the [Ācāryas](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācāryas definitions") (preceptors).[^1]

\(ii\) Here is an interesting anecdote to drive home the point that our accumulated sins cannot be washed off by our own efforts and that it is only the Lord’s spontaneous grace that can cut the gordian knot and absolve us. Kōḷari Āḻvān and Teṟkāḷvāṉ, two residents of the famous pilgrim centre, Tirukkōṭṭiyūr, in the South, met on an auspicious day, at a bathing [ghat](/definition/ghat#history "show ghat definitions"). The former demanded of the latter to wash off his sins by taking a dip in the sacred [tank](/definition/tank#history "show tank definitions"). Sharp came the rejoinder from the latter: “Think not, friend, that mv sins will be washed merely by dipping in these waters once or twice. Unless the grace of Lord [Saumya](/definition/saumya#vaishnavism "show Saumya definitions") [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions") (the presiding Deity of the place) descends on me and the discus in His hand destroys all my sins, all my personal exertions will be of no avail.” Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar, who happened to overhear the conversation was thence forward well impressed with Teṟkāḻvāṉ about whom he had no high opinion before, on a mere superficial estimate.

[^1]:  See aphorism 153 of Ācārya Hṛdayam, wherein other birds such as parrots, peacocks have also been brought in.



