+++
title = "462 Pasuram 4.5.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நமக்கும் பூவின்மிசை நங்கைக்கும் இன்பனை, ஞாலத்தார்-  
தமக்கும் வானத்தவர்க்கும் பெருமானை, தண் தாமரை-  
சுமக்கும் பாதப் பெருமானை சொல்மாலைகள் சொல்லுமாறு-  
அமைக்க வல்லேற்கு இனி யாவர் நிகர் அகல் வானத்தே?

namakkum pūviṉmicai naṅkaikkum iṉpaṉai, ñālattār-  
tamakkum vāṉattavarkkum perumāṉai, taṇ tāmarai-  
cumakkum pātap perumāṉai colmālaikaḷ collumāṟu-  
amaikka vallēṟku iṉi yāvar nikar akal vāṉattē?

**English translation of verse 4.5.8:**

Is there any one, even in the spacious [heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show heaven definitions"), equal to me  
Gifted with the capacity to compose hymns,  
Adoring the Lord, dear alike to us and the lotus-born ([Lakṣmī](/definition/lakshmi#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmī definitions"))  
Sovereign Master of those in heaven and all other realms,  
Whose lovely feet the cool lotus bears?

**Notes**

\(i\) Seeing the Lord’s overwhelming love for him, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") feels tempted to declare that there is none equal to him, the Lord’s poet, even in Heaven. The Lord’s love for His devotees is even greater than that borne by Him for [Lakṣmi](/definition/lakshmi#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmi definitions"), His consort, as could be seen from the fact that we the devotees, are mentioned first, in the text of this song, Lakṣmī comes next. This is further elucidated in aphorism 122 of [Ācarya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācarya definitions") Hṛdayam. This fact is also reinforced by an episode in [Rāmāyaṇa](/definition/ramayana#vaishnavism "show Rāmāyaṇa definitions"). Standing on a mountain top overlooking [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"), [Sugrīva](/definition/sugriva#vaishnavism "show Sugrīva definitions") saw, for the first time, [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions"), on another hill-top, opposite. Swayed by the first impulse, Sugrīva leapt across and toppled down the crown of Rāvaṇa. Śri [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") who witnessed that, gently reprimanded the Monkey-[King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions"), on his return, saying “what you have done is indeed something not expected of you. If Rāvaṇa had harmed you or humiliated you in any manner what use is there for me in reclaiming [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") thereafter?” This clearly shows that Śri Rāma’s concern for Sugrīva was even greater than that for Sītā. Sītā would be of no consequence to Śri Rāma, once Sugrīva’s honour was compromised.

\(ii\) As already stated in III-1-1, the Lord’s feet stand poised on a lotus base. And here, the lotus is said to carry the Lord’s feet. This is because the Lord’s feet score over the lotus, in all respects-chillness, fragrance and tint. The lotus thus stands subjugated and carries its victor, the Lord’s feet.

\(iii\) The Āḻvār’s capacity to sing hymns is commendable, not because of his excellence as a poet, but because he could steady himself and sing, when called upon by the Lord to sing His praise, instead of thawing down in ecstasy. The Āḻvār’s [poetic](/definition/poetry#history "show poetic definitions") excellence is not emphasised here; actually, in the Seventh centum, ninth decad, the Āḻvār says that it is the Lord who sings His own glory, keeping the Āḻvār as but His mouthpiece.


