+++
title = "469 Pasuram 4.6.2"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

திசைக்கின்றதே இவள் நோய் இது மிக்க பெருந் தெய்வம்,  
இசைப்பு இன்றி நீர் அணங்கு ஆடும் இளந் தெய்வம் அன்று இது,  
திசைப்பு இன்றியே சங்கு சக்கரம் என்று இவள் கேட்க, நீர்  
இசைக்கிற்றிராகில் நன்றே இல் பெறும் இது காண்மினே.

ticaikkiṉṟatē ivaḷ nōy itu mikka perun teyvam,  
icaippu iṉṟi nīr aṇaṅku āṭum iḷan teyvam aṉṟu itu,  
ticaippu iṉṟiyē caṅku cakkaram eṉṟu ivaḷ kēṭka, nīr  
icaikkiṟṟirākil naṉṟē il peṟum itu kāṇmiṉē.

**English translation of verse 4.6.2:**

Ye, mothers, confounded, do not go the wrong way and propitiate  
The minor deity, You should know it is inappropriate;  
This young lady’s sickness is induced by the Supreme Lord.  
Better utter the words’ conch’ and ‘discus’, so as to be heard  
By her and you will then see it does her real good.

**Notes**

\(i\) The mate clarifies to the bewildered womenfolk, going the wrong way by propitiating the inferior deity, that the Nāyakī is not under the spell of any but the Supreme Lord and the cure for her malady, therefore, lies in their singing His glory, in a chorus, within her hearing. In fact, nothing but this will enter the Nāyakī’s ears.

\(ii\) Here is an anecdote. One Āyccimakaṉ, a pious nonbrahmin was sick and lying unconscious. As he was a great devotee of Lord Raṅganātha, Śrī Parāśara Bhaṭṭar went to see him and whispered into his ears, “Lord Raṅganātha (Aḻakiya Maṇavāḷa Perumāḷ) is the sole refuge”. This at once brought the patient back to his senses and he went on repeating these words, till the end.

\(iii\) There is yet another anecdote to drive home the fact that minor deities dare not approach the devotees of Lord Mahā Viṣṇu and much less make use of their belongings, for self-propitiation. One of the land-tenants of Piḷḷai uraṅkāvilli tācar, a great devotee of Lord Viṣṇu, was tormented by the village deity known as Aiyaṉār. For the appeasement of its wrath, the deity demanded that it be offered milk and fruits, be smeared with scented sandal paste, be nicely dressed and bedecked and then be taken out in a ceremonial procession in a litter with umbrellas held over its head. The villagers borrowed all these things from their master, the Tācar, and put through the procession, as demanded by the deity. But what was the result? The tortures of the tormented tenant were only redoubled. Queried by the villagers about its strange behaviour, the deity gave out: “You fellows have brought me the articles belonging to Tācar; under his umbrella, I feel blistered by the Sun, the sandal paste burns me out like fire, his ornaments hang on me like heavy fetters and so, I shall surely take this man’s life.”


