+++
title = "475 Pasuram 4.6.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வேதம் வல்லார்களைக் கொண்டு விண்ணோர் பெருமான் திருப்-  
பாதம் பணிந்து, இவள் நோய் இது தீர்த்துக் கொள்ளாது போய்  
ஏதம் பறைந்து அல்ல செய்து கள் ஊடு கலாய்த் தூய்,  
கீதம் முழவு இட்டு நீர் அணங்கு ஆடுதல் கீழ்மையே.

vētam vallārkaḷaik koṇṭu viṇṇōr perumāṉ tirup-  
pātam paṇintu, ivaḷ nōy itu tīrttuk koḷḷātu pōy  
ētam paṟaintu [alla](/definition/alla#history "show alla definitions") ceytu kaḷ ūṭu kalāyt tūy,  
kītam muḻavu iṭṭu nīr aṇaṅku āṭutal kīḻmaiyē.

**English translation of verse 4.6.8:**

What you do, ye, mothers, is derogatory indeed,  
Speaking words unseemly, with a liberal use of liquor  
Amidst drum-beats propitiating the deity inferior,  
Instead of [worshipping](/definition/worshipping#history "show worshipping definitions") the feet of the Supreme Lord,  
Chief of Celestials, [thro](/definition/thro#history "show thro definitions")’ the good offices of [Vedic](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedic definitions") Scholars,  
To cure the sickness of this young lady, the remedy sure.

**Notes**

\(i\) The mate advises the womenfolk to desist from the propitiation of minor deities and adore instead the feet of the Supreme Lord through the good offices of the Vedic Scholars, the Lord’s devotees, and get Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī cured of her God-sickness.

The direct approach to the Lord is hazardous like mounting an [elephant](/definition/elephant#history "show elephant definitions") in the absence of its keeper. That is why it has been ordained that the supplicant should be ushered in by the Lord’s devotees. It is noteworthy that [Vibhīṣaṇa](/definition/vibhishana#vaishnavism "show Vibhīṣaṇa definitions") sought asylum in [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions")’s camp, only through his appeal to the monkeys around and [Sugrīva](/definition/sugriva#vaishnavism "show Sugrīva definitions") also got at [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") only through [Hanumān](/definition/hanuman#vaishnavism "show Hanumān definitions").

\(ii\) In the preceding song (4-6-7), the holy men were required to be worshipped, while in this song, the Lord is required to be worshipped through the mediation of the holy men. This apparent discrepancy is reconciled by Nampiḷḷai, as follows: “There is, of course, no need to worship anyone other than the pious Śrī [Vaiṣṇavas](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇavas definitions"). And yet, it is extremely difficult to shake off the complex of fellowship and look upon other humans, like ourselves, as the Supreme and revere them with unflinching devotion. Hence, the next best, namely, looking upon them as efficient mediators for presenting us to the Lord, is recommended”.

\(iii\) The unseemly words are those uttered by the priest or other oracle of the inferior deity, getting into a trance, possessed by the deity. The mate warns the elders that the wrong tactics adopted by them will be a slur on their progeny as well and pull them down.


