+++
title = "481 Pasuram 4.7.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

சீலம் இல்லாச் சிறியனேலும் செய்வினையோ பெரிதால்,  
ஞாலம் உண்டாய் ஞான மூர்த்தி 'நாராயணா! என்று என்று,  
காலந்தோறும் யான் இருந்து கைதலைபூசல் இட்டால்  
கோல மேனி காண வாராய் கூவியும் கொள்ளாயே.

cīlam illāc ciṟiyaṉēlum ceyviṉaiyō peritāl,  
ñālam uṇṭāy ñāṉa mūrtti 'nārāyaṇā! eṉṟu eṉṟu,  
kālantōṟum yāṉ iruntu kaitalaipūcal iṭṭāl  
kōla mēṉi kāṇa vārāy kūviyum koḷḷāyē.

**English translation of verse 4.7.1:**

Bereft of merit, I am indeed small  
And yet, the evil in me looms large;  
Alas! respond you don’t to my lusty call  
As Nārāyaṇa, Sustainer of the worlds (during deluge),  
Knowledge incarnate, and so on, many a time, with hands lifted overhead;  
Neither do you come And let me your bewitching Form behold  
Nor do You lift me up, unto your sweet fold.

**Notes**

\(i\) Even if one did not actually do anything good, the mere thought or intention to do good things will suffice and it can yield good results. In respect of evil, however, it is only the actual commission of evil acts that is harmful and not the mere contemplation of it. And so, the Āḻvār says that he has actually perpetrated evil deeds to a very large extent and that this impedes his getting at the Lord.

\(ii\) *Knowledge incarnate*

The individual Soul also possesses knowledge but that gets perverted and puts him or her, right into the world, eking out a miserable existence, literally lame and blind. On the other hand, the Lord’s knowledge is pure and unalloyed; there is scarcely a thing He doesn’t know and nothing is beyond His capacity to do. The Individual, lame and blind, therefore, needs to be guided by the Lord. Such an obligation, on the part of the Lord, cannot be disowned by Him because He is Nārāyaṇa, in whom all things and beings subsist.

\(iii\) The Lord’s bewitching Form is intended to be seen and enjoyed by His devotees and yet, how can He stay away from the Āḻvār, like keeping a pot of nicely flavoured water out of bound, to the thirsty? The other alternative, which is only the second best, is to call him off to the heavenly abode.

\(iv\) It is noteworthy that all the five topics (Artha pañcaka) have been mentioned in this song: (1) Nārāyaṇa—the Super-Soul; (2) The small self—the Individual Soul; (3) Beckoning the Lord—The Lord is at once the ‘Means’ for attaining Him; (4) Beholding the Lord—The ‘End’ or the destined goal and (5) Large volume of evil—The impediments for the influx of the Lord’s grace.


