+++
title = "509 Pasuram 4.9.3"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கொண்டாட்டும் குலம் புனைவும் தமர் உற்றார் விழு நிதியும்,  
வண்டு ஆர் பூங் குழலாளும், மனை ஒழிய உயிர் மாய்தல்,  
கண்டு ஆற்றேன் உலகு இயற்கை கடல்வண்ணா! அடியேனைப்  
பண்டேபோல் கருதாது உன் அடிக்கே கூய்ப் பணிக்கொள்ளே.

koṇṭāṭṭum [kulam](/definition/kulam#history "show kulam definitions") puṉaivum tamar uṟṟār viḻu nitiyum,  
vaṇṭu ār pūṅ kuḻalāḷum, maṉai oḻiya uyir māytal,  
kaṇṭu āṟṟēṉ ulaku iyaṟkai kaṭalvaṇṇā! aṭiyēṉaip  
paṇṭēpōl karutātu uṉ aṭikkē kūyp paṇikkoḷḷē.

**English translation of verse 4.9.3:**

My Lord of oceanic hue, think not of this vassal as before,  
Lift me up that I may serve right at your feet,  
Endure I can’t the trends of the world, any more;  
Unto name and fame shoot up people overnight, these upstarts  
Acquire home and hearth, the bride fair and all that.  
But leaving them all behind, [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") suddenly departs.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [Ācāryas](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācāryas definitions") who have delved deep into the [śāstras](/definition/shastra#vaishnavism "show śāstras definitions") and acquired a keen insight of [Vedanta](/definition/vedanta#vaishnavism "show Vedanta definitions"), the spiritual domain, are no less keen in their [observation](/definition/observation#history "show observation definitions") of the mechanics of the mundane world, as revealed by the commentary on this song. A fellow who was nobody till yesterday, suddenly comes by a few chips and gets boosted by people around, waiting for a suitable opportunity to grab from him. The fellow of obscure origin and humble parentage, having risen to fortune, becomes vain and starts masquerading as one of high descent, under the cloak of his new-found wealth. Relations who would not acknowledge him earlier, throng round him now and openly parade their kinship with him. Fathers who would not even look at him and much less consider him as eligible for the hand of their daughters, now vie with each other in netting him. Our hero who has now amassed [money](/definition/money#history "show money definitions") which generally accumulates like the dried leaves dropped from the [trees](/definition/tree#history "show trees definitions") during [autumn](/definition/autumn#history "show autumn definitions"), also thinks it worthwhile to marry, although he is well beyond the borders of youth. The poor girl, his partner, still in her teens, falls an easy [prey](/definition/prey#history "show prey definitions") to the prying eyes of the greedy youngsters around. The home is jolly well there, built by our hero for him and his wife to live in privacy, but, leaving all these behind, he gives up his ghost one day all of a sudden. Oh, how pathetic! The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") doesn’t want to stay in this abode any more, watching such harrowing scenes.

\(ii\) *Think not of this vassal as before*. As one Ciṟṟāḷkoṇṭār would put it, the Saint wants the Lord to note that his present appeal is not on a par with his earlier ones, being the offshoot of his mental agony over the calamitous ways of the world and the Lord should not, therefore, ignore his call even as people are prone to ignore the continual tittle-tattles of the newt ([wall](/definition/wall#history "show wall definitions")-[lizard](/definition/lizard#history "show lizard definitions")).


