+++
title = "512 Pasuram 4.9.6"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

மறுக்கி வல் வலைப்படுத்தி குமைத்திட்டு கொன்று உண்பர்,  
அறப்பொருளை அறிந்து ஓரார் இவை என்ன உலகு இயற்கை?  
வெறித் துளவ முடியானே! வினையேனை உனக்கு அடிமை-  
அறக்கொண்டாய், இனி என் ஆர் அமுதே! கூயருளாயே.

maṟukki val valaippaṭutti kumaittiṭṭu koṉṟu uṇpar,  
aṟapporuḷai aṟintu ōrār ivai eṉṉa ulaku iyaṟkai?  
veṟit tuḷava muṭiyāṉē! viṉaiyēṉai uṉakku aṭimai-  
aṟakkoṇṭāy, iṉi eṉ ār amutē! kūyaruḷāyē.

**English translation of verse 4.9.6:**

Oh, Lord, wearing on Your crown tuḷaci garland fragrant,  
My perfect Nectar, You have as Your vassal enlisted  
This sinner great and now I pray that You grant  
Me a lift and clear me out of this place I detest,  
Where men live by torturing others, immorality running rampant.

**Note**

It is indeed remarkable that Saint Nammāḻvār, seated in the hollow of a tamarind tree inside the temple, could televise, as it were, the happenings in the world around and lament, “oh, the ways of the world!” He deplores the unfair means by which people hoard lucre, throwing morals to the winds. Here is a typical example of the nefarious means by which people stuff their stomachs.

A poor, harmless soul, having a little bit of money, went to a village, thinking that he could live there in peace. The headman of the village, however, frightened the new-comer by telling him that the people around suspected him and might even harm him. Put in dread, the simple fellow succumbed to the artifice of the headman and entrusted all money and land to the latter’s custody. Lest the poor victim should, later on, make bold to demand his money and land, the headman got a document executed in his favour for a loan, not actually paid, and interest was made to accumulate thereon. Not stopping with all these machinations, the headman feared exposure of his infamy sometime or the other and, therefore, contrived to murder the poor fellow and thus did away with him altogether.

Little wonder then, the Saint deplored and detested such surroundings and longed to get away.


