+++
title = "521 Pasuram 4.10.2"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

நாடி நீர் வணங்கும் தெய்வமும் உம்மையும் முன்படைத்தான்,  
வீடு இல் சீர்ப்புகழ் ஆதிப்பிரான் அவன் மேவி உறைகோயில்,  
மாட மாளிகை சூழ்ந்து அழகு ஆய திருக்குருகூர் அதனைப்  
பாடி ஆடி பரவிச் செல்மின்கள் பல் உலகீர்! பரந்தே.

nāṭi nīr vaṇaṅkum teyvamum ummaiyum muṉpaṭaittāṉ,  
vīṭu il cīrppukaḻ ātippirāṉ avaṉ mēvi uṟaikōyil,  
māṭa māḷikai cūḻntu aḻaku āya tirukkurukūr ataṉaip  
pāṭi āṭi paravic celmiṉkaḷ pal ulakīr! parantē.

**English translation of verse 4.10.2:**

Ye, men of this diverse world, move about all over,  
Dancing and singing the praise of lovely Kurukūr,  
By stately mansions surrounded, where lovingly resides  
Lord ‘Ātippirāṉ’ of traits, auspicious and abiding,  
Who created both you and the deities you revere.

**Notes**

\(i\) In this song, the Āḻvār exhorts the people of all sorts to converge into Tirunakari (Kurukūr) from different directions in great jubilation, dancing and singing the praise of that pilgrim centre, even as people congregate in a festive mood at Srirangam during the ‘big festival’ (Paṅkuṉi uttaram celebrations). The emphasis has now shifted from the Lord to the pilgrim centre where He lovingly resides and even the different routes leading thereto. The Lord loves the pilgrim centres on Earth even better than His stay in Heaven, where His heart always pines for the teeming millions of His straying subjects down below. Such an attitude is His crowning trait and it does not alter the fact that Heaven is a land of unalloyed bliss. In the midst of all that bliss. His heart leaps towards the weaker sections elsewhere, because of His tender solicitude.

\(ii\) It is Lord Viṣṇu, the Supreme, that ushered in all the subjects, classified under different denominations and so, worshipping the lesser deities amounts to the worship of one section of the Lord’s subjects, by another. The Āḻvār deprecates the men of this world running after these deities, searching for them, instead of searching for the Supreme Lord, as enjoined by the Scriptures, ‘*Sonveṣṭavyaḥ*’.

\(iii\) The Universal Father is the only Lord and all the others are His vassals. Whoever arrogate to themselves independence are veritable thieves. The lesser gods also are such thieves in as much as they gulp down the sacrificial food which should legitimately go to the Lord and when the sacrificers seek them with prayers for boons, they run away like thieves. These gods only rob from the sacrificers what is God’s own and they have nothing which they can call their own and grant.


