+++
title = "535 Pasuram 5.1.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

கை ஆர் சக்கரத்து என் கருமாணிக்கமே! என்று என்று,  
பொய்யே கைம்மைசொல்லி புறமே புறமே ஆடி.  
மெய்யே பெற்றொழிந்தேன், விதி வாய்க்கின்று காப்பார் ஆர்,  
ஐயோ கண்ணபிரான்! அறையோ இனிப்போனாலே. (2)

kai ār cakkarattu eṉ karumāṇikkamē! eṉṟu eṉṟu,  
poyyē kaimmaicolli puṟamē puṟamē āṭi.  
meyyē peṟṟoḻintēṉ, viti vāykkiṉṟu kāppār ār,  
aiyō kaṇṇapirāṉ! aṟaiyō iṉippōṉālē. (2)

**English translation of verse 5.1.1:**

Still engrossed with pleasures sensual, I did sham  
Love unto you and called you out many a time,  
As my Lord of sapphire hue, holding the discus majestic and so on,  
And yet, you did your grace on this imposter rain  
As if I am genuine; ha! who can its influx resist?  
Oh, Kaṇṇapirāṉ, You can’t from me part hence, even if you insist.

**Note**

No doubt, the effulgent discus in the Lord’s exquisite hand and His sapphire hue are very attractive and can easily steal away the hearts of beholders. The Āḻvār’s heart, hard ḻike steel, is, however, impervious and yet he called out the Lord, not once, but several times, shamming the love of true devotees. Apart from this treachery of the tongue, the Āḻvār’s behaviour, as he puts it, was also most unworthy of the Lord’s grace. And yet, he now exults that he has been rewarded like the true devotees soaked in God-love, and exclaims that none can obstruct the influx of His voluntary grace, flowing with remarkable spontaniety. In this hour of victory the Āḻvār challenges, with a gusto, even the Lord to get parted from him, if He can! Did He not declare, as Śrī Rāma, on the seashore, that He would not give up any one who sought refuge in Him, even if the supplicant be a foe in the disguise of a friend, an imposter? It is not as if the omniscient Lord has been duped into believing a pretender and taking him at his face value. The truth is that, though He is Omnipotent, He elects to be incapable of abandoning the sinner, when the latter seeks His protection, half-heartedly though, in view of the eternal bond of relationship subsisting between the Creator and the Creature. Perfectly safe under the wings of the Lord’s mercy, the Āḻvār makes bold to declare that the Lord cannot tear Himself away from him.


