+++
title = "541 Pasuram 5.1.7"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

அம்மான் ஆழிப்பிரான் அவன் எவ் இடத்தான்? யான் ஆர்?,  
எம் மா பாவியர்க்கும் விதி வாய்க்கின்று வாய்க்கும் கண்டீர்,  
'கைம்மா துன்பு ஒழித்தாய்!' என்று கைதலைபூசல் இட்டே,  
மெய்ம் மால் ஆயொழிந்தேன் எம்பிரானும் என் மேலானே.

ammāṉ āḻippirāṉ avaṉ ev iṭattāṉ? yāṉ ār?,  
em mā pāviyarkkum viti vāykkiṉṟu vāykkum kaṇṭīr,  
'kaimmā tuṉpu oḻittāy!' eṉṟu kaitalaipūcal iṭṭē,  
meym māl āyoḻintēṉ empirāṉum eṉ mēlāṉē.

**English translation of verse 5.1.7:**

How great is the Lord wielding the discus  
And how unworthy am I and yet, how gracious  
That He, my Benefactor great, should His grace immense shed  
Unto me, a sinner great! with joined palms overhead  
I did, in hollowness address Him, as the one who rescued  
The [elephant](/definition/elephant#history "show elephant definitions") in great distress and a devotee true  
He has turned me, with love immense unto Him!

#### Notes

\(i\) One can’t but shrink back while contrasting one’s own abject lowliness with the Lord’s peerless excellence. Reciting the first [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") of the original text of this song.

Piḻḻai-amutaṉar would exclaim: “How great and worthy He is, the Lord wielding the discus!” [raising](/definition/raising#history "show raising definitions") his arms up, pointing to [heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show heaven definitions") and then drop them down earthward, saying “how vile and unworthy I am!” And yet, when His grace descends and overflows its continents, this enormous disparity is more than made up. Then it is all one vast expanse of water (grace), where the high and low, big and small, cannot be differentiated. Śrī [Vedānta](/definition/vedanta#vaishnavism "show Vedānta definitions") [Deśika](/definition/desika#history "show Deśika definitions") would appear to echo the substance of this song in [Śloka](/definition/sloka#vaishnavism "show Śloka definitions") 65 of his ‘[Dayā](/definition/daya#history "show Dayā definitions") [śatakaṃ](/definition/sataka#vaishnavism "show śatakaṃ definitions")’, where he has observed that inundation of the Lord’s grace has rendered one and all, big and low, quite even, all of them having been submerged under the vast expanse of His grace-people of low stature like [Guha](/definition/guha#history "show Guha definitions"), the hunter chief, [Sugrīva](/definition/sugriva#vaishnavism "show Sugrīva definitions"), the monkey [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions"), a jungle inhabitant, named Śabari, kucela, the famished [brahmin](/definition/brahmin#history "show brahmin definitions") in rags, Kubjā, the malformed maid of [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions")’s establishment, the young [Gopīs](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopīs definitions") of [Vraja](/definition/vraja#vaishnavism "show Vraja definitions"), [Mālākāra](/definition/malakara#history "show Mālākāra definitions"), the flower vendor etc., on the one hand, and Lord [Śrīnivāsa](/definition/shrinivasa#history "show Śrīnivāsa definitions") Himself at that charming eminence, known as Tiruvēṅkaṭam, on the other.

\(ii\) The Lord’s grace becomes all the more lustrous and pronounced, when it embraces even fakes like the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") (as he puts it). He just feigned devotion and referred to the Lord’s rescue of [Gajendra](/definition/gajendra#vaishnavism "show Gajendra definitions") in distress, though not with the intense feeling of a true devotee whose heart can’t but melt down at the Lord’s posthaste arrival in the pond which was the scene of a titanic struggle between the elephant and a [crocodile](/definition/crocodile#history "show crocodile definitions"). The Lord pounced upon the Āḻvār even as a famished fellow pounces upon [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions").


