+++
title = "563 Pasuram 5.3.3"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

ஊர்ந்த சகடம் உதைத்த பாதத்தன் பேய்முலை-  
சார்ந்து சுவைத்த செவ்வாயன் என்னை நிறை கொண்டான்  
பேர்ந்தும் பெயர்ந்தும் அவனோடு அன்றி ஓர் சொல் இலேன்  
தீர்ந்த என் தோழீ! என் செய்யும் ஊரவர் கவ்வையே?

ūrnta cakaṭam utaitta pātattaṉ pēymulai-  
cārntu cuvaitta cevvāyaṉ eṉṉai niṟai koṇṭāṉ  
pērntum peyarntum avaṉōṭu aṉṟi ōr col ilēṉ  
tīrnta eṉ tōḻī! eṉ ceyyum ūravar kavvaiyē?

**English translation of verse 5.3.3:**

My seasoned mate, now and again, I keep talking of none  
But the coral-lipped Lord who sucked the life out of the demon  
And unto pieces kicked the devilish wheel; He robbed me  
Of my traits feminine and now what is it to me,  
The rebuke of these slanderous folks around?

#### Note

Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī enlightens her mate by saying that the Lord kicked the demon who entered the cart-wheel, to a thousand pieces, and sucked the demoness who feigned as the good mother, unto death, only to attract her and steal her heart away. It was earlier assumed by the mate that these incidents formed part of the general scheme of annihilation of the Lord’s enemies set upon Him by Kaṃsa.

The Nāyakī feels tortured and tormented, due to her separation from the Lord. The mate whose role it is to put the Nāyakī on to her beloved, now questions the Nāyakī’s wisdom in being soaked in God-love despite her pangs of separation from the Lord and suggests that she might as well turn her attention on other things and get over her misery. But the Nāyakī asserts that her thoughts are always rivetted to Him and consequently, her conversation has to necessarily revolve round Him. This gladdens the heart of the mate, quite in keeping with her true role and she hugs the Nāyaki to her bosom, in appreciation of the Nāyakī’s steadfast love to God. It is against this background that the Nāyakī addresses her mate as the seasoned one. This is like Sītā’s appreciation of Hanumān, after her initial doubts about his bonafides were dispelled.


