+++
title = "565 Pasuram 5.3.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கடியன் கொடியன் நெடிய மால் உலகம் கொண்ட-  
அடியன் அறிவு அரு மேனி மாயத்தன் ஆகிலும்-  
கொடிய என் நெஞ்சம் அவன் என்றே கிடக்கும் எல்லே  
துடி கொள் இடை மடத் தோழீ! அன்னை என் செய்யுமே?

kaṭiyaṉ koṭiyaṉ neṭiya māl ulakam koṇṭa-  
aṭiyaṉ aṟivu aru mēṉi māyattaṉ ākilum-  
koṭiya eṉ neñcam avaṉ eṉṟē kiṭakkum ellē  
tuṭi koḷ iṭai maṭat tōḻī! aṉṉai eṉ ceyyumē?

**English translation of verse 5.3.5:**

Agile and alert or cruelly indifferent could be the Lord,  
Big beyond comprehension, His feet measured the worlds,  
His form bewitching puts one in a daze and yet  
My stubborn mind clings to Him alone, my thin-waisted, modest mate!  
How can mother over me prevail [if you can’t]?

#### Notes

\(i\) The Nāyakī reinforces her stand vis-a-vis the Lord, as set out in the preceding song, by stating that she would adore the Lord even if He were to be a callous despot, bereft of good qualities, and that it was, therefore, no use trying to draw her away from the Lord. Be it a matter of recounting the auspicious traits of the Lord or of cataloguing His oppressive methods and tactics as listed in this song, the Nāyakī was indeed far more competent than the mate. This is because it is the Nāyakī and not the mate who has alternately tasted the bliss of union with the Lord and suffered the pangs of separation from Him.

\(ii\) If it suited His purpose, He could do a thing with the utmost speed and pounce upon the Subject, lulling the latter into a sense of false security that the union would last for ever; He would also not hesitate to leave the Subject in great distress by snapping Himself suddenly. Bent upon getting back the Kingdom lost by [Indra](/definition/indra#vaishnavism "show Indra definitions"), the Lord would leave no space for [Bali](/definition/bali#vaishnavism "show Bali definitions") and send him to the depths of the underworld. Knowing these oppressive tactics of the Lord as well as she did, the Nāyakī would nevertheless cling fast to Him. Drawbacks though these might be, still they are His drawbacks and the Lord’s contact with them is enough to make the Nāyakī feel attracted to them. The emphasis is on the Lord’s contact, as such and not the [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") or quality of the contact c.f. aphorisms 108 to 110 of ‘Śrī [Vacana](/definition/vacana#history "show Vacana definitions") [Bhūṣaṇa](/definition/bhushana#vaishnavism "show Bhūṣaṇa definitions")’. Were it not disinterested love of God, love for its own sake, as distinguished from love induced by the Lord’s auspicious traits, there should be an end of such love during those moments when the devotee feels frustrated and thinks that God is bereft of all those endearing qualities, he pined for. The Lord might be anything, selfish, time-serving, elusive and so on, but He shall be the sole refuge of the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), under all circumstances. In Periya Tirumoḻi, XI-8-7 Tirumaṅkai Āḻvār also picturesquely brings home the inalienability of the ‘Master-[Servant](/definition/servant#history "show Servant definitions")’ relationship between God and Man, whatever be the vicissitudes. Addressing the Lord, he says: “My Lord! you are generally known to be sweet as sugar-cane; even if you turn bitter like the [margosa](/definition/margosa#history "show margosa definitions") fruit, I, Your eternal servant, will covet nothing else but Your comely feet, like unto the caterpillar, bred on margosa leaf, eating nothing but that.”

\(iii\) It is worth recalling, in this context what transpired between Anasūya [Devi](/definition/devi#vaishnavism "show Devi definitions"), wife of Sage [Atri](/definition/atri#vaishnavism "show Atri definitions"), and [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions"). Felicitating Sītā on her fidelity to her husband (giving up the palace and all its wealth and [relatives](/definition/relative#history "show relatives definitions") and following [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") into exile) Anasūya Devi exhorted that the husband needs to be venerated as God Himself, be he in town or wood, well or ill. Swayed by modesty, the bashful Sītā stood with down-cast eyes and spoke out: “It is indeed difficult for one to prove that my fidelity to [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") stands by itself without any external provocations or inducements, as Rāma and his excellence can never remain apart. My fidelity will remain constant even if he were the exact reverse of what he is”.


