+++
title = "567 Pasuram 5.3.7"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வலையுள் அகப்படுத்து என்னை நல் நெஞ்சம் கூவிக்கொண்டு  
அலை கடல் பள்ளி அம்மானை ஆழிப்பிரான் தன்னை  
கலை கொள் அகல் அல்குல் தோழீ! நம் கண்களால் கண்டு  
தலையில் வணங்கவும் ஆம் கொலோ? தையலார் முன்பே.

valaiyuḷ akappaṭuttu eṉṉai nal neñcam kūvikkoṇṭu  
alai kaṭal [paḷḷi](/definition/palli#history "show paḷḷi definitions") ammāṉai āḻippirāṉ taṉṉai  
kalai koḷ akal alkul tōḻī! nam kaṇkaḷāl kaṇṭu  
talaiyil vaṇaṅkavum ām kolō? taiyalār muṉpē.

**English translation of verse 5.3.7:**

My lovely mate, well-clad, shall we with our eyes behold  
The Lord who ensnared me and away with my good heart fled  
And rested on the surging ocean, the Benefactor, who the discus wields  
And bow unto Him, well in front of these (rebuking) ladies?

**Notes:**

\(i\) The Nāyakī longs for the Lord’s presence so as to enable her to fall at His feet, right in front of the slanderous folks and silence them. These folks were slandering the Lord as faithless to the Nāyakī and the latter as foolishly sticking on to Him.

\(ii\) When Kūrathaḻvāṉ discoursed on this song in a place called Rājēntracōḻaṉ, a centenarian got up, shaking from head to foot and reverently queried whether it would be appropriate for the Nāyakī to bow unto her [lover](/definition/lover#history "show lover definitions"). The illustrious discourser quoted [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions")’s conduct in this regard as the precedent. She told [Hanumān](/definition/hanuman#vaishnavism "show Hanumān definitions") when he took leave of her in Aśokavana at [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"); “Pray, tell [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions"), corn to protect the entire world, that I prostrate unto Him”. [Sundara](/definition/sundara#history "show Sundara definitions") [Kāṇḍa](/definition/kanda#history "show Kāṇḍa definitions") XXXVIII 53.

The Sandals got separated from [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") and went north. Sītā was separated from Him, later on, and she went south. Whereas the sandals, installed on the [throne](/definition/throne#history "show throne definitions") ruled over a whole Kingdom, Sītā was a miserable captive in Laṅkā, tormented and tortured by the seven hundred and odd Rākṣasīs. Sītā must have pondered within herself and realised that this disparity was due to the contact of the Sandals with Śrī Rāma’s feet and the absence of such contact, in her case. Therefore it is that she now tells Hanumān, the [Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions"), that she prostrates at the feet of her Lord, albeit from that distance.


