+++
title = "638 Introduction to Section 5.10"

+++
Unable to reach the holy place of Tiruvallavāḻ, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") contemplated the Lord enshrined there, from the outskirts of the holy city, as we saw in the last decad. The Saint thought, he would sustain himself by meditating on Lord [Govinda](/definition/govinda#vaishnavism "show Govinda definitions")’s ([Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions")’s) auspicious traits but it made him thaw down. And so, he prays unto the Lord in this decad to grant him at least the stamina to contemplate His glory and sustain himself, even if He would not oblige him with His [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions"). For this purpose, he turns to the Lord in His Incarnate Form ([Vibhava](/definition/vibhava#vaishnavism "show Vibhava definitions")), having failed to realise his longing for communion with the Lord in His Area (iconic) Form, in successive pilgrim centres.

On the face of it, the Āḻvār would appear to be moving in the reverse gear. The Lord’s Area (Workshippable) Form is intended to overcome the formidable handicaps and obstacles that confront one in [worshipping](/definition/worshipping#history "show worshipping definitions") Him in any of His other aspects of ‘Para’, ‘[Vyūha](/definition/vyuha#history "show Vyūha definitions")’, Vibhava’ and ‘[Antaryāmi](/definition/antaryamin#vaishnavism "show Antaryāmi definitions")’. And yet, the [Alvar](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Alvar definitions") has recourse to the Lord’s Incarnations, overlooking the time-lag, for the simple reason that the devotees could mingle with the Lord freely, converse and embrace during His [Avatāras](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāras definitions"), unlike the ‘[Arca](/definition/arca#history "show Arca definitions")’ where such exchanges are not possible, resulting in the Āḻvār’s frustration. Even among the Incarnations it is noteworthy that all the [Āḻvārs](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvārs definitions") had a partiality for Kṛṣṇa. The illustrious [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar explained this special preference, as follows:

The grief caused by one’s bereavement loses its intensity with the passage of time, while the pangs are very acute when it is fresh. To the Āḻvārs, Kṛṣṇāvatāra was the nearest in point of time and hence, their lamentations. In the case of Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions"), in particular, he missed the Kṛṣṇāvatāra by a bare six weeks. Tradition has it that he came into this world just forty three days after Lord Kṛṣṇa’s ascension to the Celestium. The Āḻvār cursed himself as a sinner, born six weeks late, missing the Kṛṣṇāvatāra like unto a delicious [dish](/definition/dish#history "show dish definitions") hitting the teeth and [falling](/definition/falling#history "show falling definitions") to the ground, while attempting to eat it. It was as if Kṛṣṇa had left the pastoral [township](/definition/township#history "show township definitions") of Tiruvāyppāṭi by the North gate even as the Āḻvār was [entering](/definition/entering#history "show entering definitions") the place by the South gate.


