+++
title = "667 Pasuram 6.2.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

மின்இடை மடவார்கள் நின்அருள் சூடுவார் முன்பு நான் அது அஞ்சுவன்  
மன்உடை இலங்கை அரண் காய்ந்த மாயவனே  
உன்னுடைய சுண்டாயம் நான் அறிவன் இனி அதுகொண்டு செய்வது என்?  
என்னுடைய பந்தும் கழலும் தந்து போகு நம்பீ!. (2)

miṉiṭai maṭavārkaḷ niṉaruḷ cūṭuvār muṉpu nāṉ atu añcuvaṉ  
maṉuṭai ilaṅkai araṇ kāynta māyavaṉē  
uṉṉuṭaiya cuṇṭāyam nāṉ aṟivaṉ iṉi atukoṇṭu ceyvatu eṉ?  
eṉṉuṭaiya pantum kaḻalum tantu pōku nampī!. (2)

**English translation of verse 6.2.1:**

I am afraid, You and I, the thin-waisted favourites of Yours  
Will scold, all Your mischief do I know, yet it no longer matters.  
The ramparts of Rāvaṇa’s Laṅkā, You pulled down in anger great,  
You, perfect One of wondrous deeds, from here You better depart  
And go anywhere You like but leave my playthings here, all right.

#### Notes

\(i\) Reference to playthings, in this song, would make it appear that Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī and the Lord were playing some game and the latter suddenly left. The Nāyakī felt piqued by this sudden departure of the game-partner so that, when He presented Himself later on, she would keep mum. And now, the Lord tried to coax her, in ever so many ways: He lavished epithets on her describing her as a thin-waisted beauty and so on. Even then, she would not respond and the frustrated Lover got hold of the games-materials lying on the ground (Ball etc.) and addressed them amorously. Well, the farthest limit of provocation had been reached and the Nāyakī could no longer resist coming out of her shell. She rebuked the Lord, saying that she was not the thin-waisted beauty referred to by Him and He would do well to go back to those beauties with whom He had been indulging prior to coming down to her. She also cautioned Him that, in case those ladies got to know of His having come over to her, they would scold both Him and her. But then, she was severing her connections with Him and the displeasure of those other ladies was, therefore, of no consequence to her. As the Lord was about to leave the place, picking in hand the games-materials, the Nāyakī sternly asked Him to leave her playthings and go. It may be recapitulated that, in the preamble to this decad, the Nāyakī was stated to be in a desperate mood, ready even to put an end to her life. What else is it but (spiritual) death when she spells out anything as hers, in His presence? That Savant Ciṟiyāttāṉ would point out that the notion of ‘mine’ and ‘not mine’ reigned supreme in Dhṛtarāṣṭra’s mind and this eventually led to the destruction of his race. Right at the commencement of Bhagavad Gitā, he asked Sañjaya: Say, Sañjaya, say what wrought *my people* (māmakā) and the Pāṇḍavas”.

\(ii\) The Lord’s destruction of Rāvaṇa’s Laṅkā is also taken by the Nāyakī with a pinch of salt. She sees in it an attempt on His part to draw into His broad net, the numbers of the weaker sex, by making it appear that He did so much, ate no food, spent sleepless days and nights, bunded the ocean, fought a pitched battle with the formidable Rāvaṇa and destroyed his citadel, all for the sake of a woman. The Nāyakī spitefully declares that she could very well see through His game.


