+++
title = "672 Pasuram 6.2.6"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

குழகி எங்கள் குழமணன்கொண்டு கோயின்மை செய்து கன்மம் ஒன்று இல்லை  
பழகி யாம் இருப்போம் பரமே இத் திரு அருள்கள்?  
அழகியார் இவ் உலகம் மூன்றுக்கும் தேவிமை ஈதகுவார் பலர் உளர்  
கழகம் ஏறேல் நம்பீ! உனக்கும் இளைதே கன்மமே.

kuḻaki eṅkaḷ kuḻamaṇaṉkoṇṭu kōyiṉmai ceytu kaṉmam oṉṟu illai  
paḻaki yām iruppōm paramē it tiru aruḷkaḷ?  
aḻakiyār iv ulakam mūṉṟukkum tēvimai ītakuvār palar uḷar  
kaḻakam ēṟēl nampī! uṉakkum iḷaitē kaṉmamē.

**English translation of verse 6.2.6:**

Oh, Sire, ‘tis no use Your riding rough-shod, fondling our dolls,  
What You are, long association with you has shown us well,  
Targets we aren’t for Your amorous advances, others there are indeed,  
Fit to be Your consorts, of beauty surpassing in all the worlds;  
Force You shall not into our group, verily Your deeds  
Will put even You to shame and make You hang Your head.

#### Note

Sensing the pulse of the Nāyakī, even the birds flew off' and now, only the dolls remain on the scene. The Lord starts fondling the dolls but the Nāyakī prods Him, saying that all this behaviour will not help Him. The Lord, however, swears that He is hers, contemplating her all the time. This draws forth a sharp rebuff from the Nayaki that she has known enough of Him and His white lies, coming off in an unbroken succession, with perfect ease. This again gives a handle to the Lord who remarks that, being used to His pranks so well, they would sorely miss them all, if He went away. So saying, He stays on hob-nobbing, much to the chagrin of the Nāyakī who burst out that all His silly pranks were more than she could endure and that He would do well to turn His attention on those other favourites of His, of matchless beauty. She further warns Him not to force Himself any more into their group. But even this curt warning would not deter Him and He lingers on, knowing as He does, in His heart of hearts, that although the Nāyakī’s longue utters such harsh words, inwardly she would want Him to stay on and bandy words like these, with her. And the Nāyaki frowns at Him, saying that He would fall low in His own estimation, if only He cared to examine the propriety of His conduct-literally, a re-enactment of the ‘Kṛṣṇa-Gopīs episode’.

Śrī Parāśara Bhaṭṭar would exclaim:

“Oh, what an amazing simplicity! the Lord of the Universe, the repository of all auspicious traits, the Supreme Controller of all, is feeling helpless before a handfull of shepherdesses, unable to move either way, neither go inside nor get out of the place. How strange it is that sages Vyāsa and Parāśara could not dwell on this astounding aspect of the Lord! Well, who else but these Āḻvār Saints, soaked in God-love, could comprehend and handle this theme which passeth all understanding of the common man who can’t readily bring himself to believe that the Supreme Lord could ever condescend to reduce Himself to such a strange pass?”


