+++
title = "70 Introduction to Section 1.6"

+++
Following the pattern, hitherto noticed, of bringing to the fore a particular auspicious trait of the Lord in each decad ([Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")), ‘Swārādatva’ (i.e.) easy worshippability of the Lord is emphasised in this decad. Unlike the minor deities whom it is very hard to propitiate, what with the sacrifice of goats and hens and other such harsh demands on their votaries, the Lord is pleased with whatever is offered to Him lovingly, with pious will. Being above wants of any kind, it is unthinkable that He would want from us any offering at all. God sets greater value upon the devotion of the heart than the material value of outward offerings. He hates hypocrisy and estimates the sincerity of the soul. In His song Celestial, He has affirmed: ‘Whoever offers Me in faith and love, a leaf (as [Draupati](/definition/draupadi#vaishnavism "show Draupati definitions") [[Draupadi](/definition/draupadi#vaishnavism "show Draupadi definitions")] did), a flower (as [Gajendra](/definition/gajendra#vaishnavism "show Gajendra definitions") did), a fruit (as Sabhari did), water poured forth (as Ambariṣā did), that offering I accept, lovingly made with pious will. Things, easy of procurement for all, including the poorest of the poor, offered, not for expiation of sins or securing other ends but considering giving to Me as an end in itself and out of sheer inability to exist without making a lovegift to Me are indeed acceptable. In the absence of the devotee’s inability to offer anything for eating, I consume even the leaves and flowers offered. [Vidura](/definition/vidura#vaishnavism "show Vidura definitions") gave me plantain skins and Kuchela gave me but poor beaten rice and yet, I devoured them all with great avidity, like a famished fellow”.

The outward offerings may be trifles but, in God’s eye, they carry much weight, when offered in humility and devotion. Once some Princes had a desire to offer campaka flower to Lord [Jagannatha](/definition/jagannatha#vaishnavism "show Jagannatha definitions") at [Pūri](/definition/puri#history "show Pūri definitions"), knowing that it is His favourite flower. On going to the flower market, they found that all but a single flower had already been sold out. Each one of the Princes was keen on buying it and offered competitive price. One of them staked his entire fortune, bought the flower and offered it to the Lord. That night, God appeared in the Prince’s dream and said, “The debt of thy flower is very heavy. I cannot bear its weight”, thus showing His gracious acceptance of the sincerely made offering. As already stated, the Lord is above wants of any kind, and yet He greedily grabs at the selfless service rendered unto Him by the devotees disinterestedly, as an end in itself. In this decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") enjoys and extols this great trait of the Lord.


