+++
title = "705 Introduction to Section 6.5"

+++
The theme of Nāyakī, Mother and Mate, that is, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") expressing himself in the vein of a female [lover](/definition/lover#history "show lover definitions"), her mother and mate, by turns, has already been dealt with, *in extenso*, in the preamble to 1-4. Of the hundred decads, comprised in this work, as many as seventeen reflect the ‘Nāyakī’ aspect, seven are put in the mouth of the Mother and three voiced forth, by the mates. Taking this Sixth Centum alone, VI-1, VI-2 and VI-8 are the utterances of Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī, this one, the song of the mate while VI-6 and VI-7 are ascribed to the Mother. Thus, this centum reflects all the three types, like the fourth centum. As already elucidated, all these songs were, of course, the compositions of the Āḻvār, though ascribed to three different agencies, like unto the waters of the main river being conveyed through different channels. But then, let us now examine the necessity for the songs, in this decad, being put in the mouth of the mate.

In V-6, we saw the Lord’s glory and grandeur, enumerated by Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī, possessed by the Lord. And now, the Āḻvār wishes to give expression to the depth of his love unto God. This only redounds to the greatness of the Lord, because all the auspicious qualities of the Lord and His unique prowess will go unheard, unnoticed and unsung but for His devotees who can revel in them and recount, just like the cool southerly breeze blowing in a depopulated place like the [forest](/definition/forest#history "show forest definitions") or the moonshine in the wilderness. Did not [Periyāḻvār](/definition/periyalvar#vaishnavism "show Periyāḻvār definitions"), in his opening song of benediction, pray for long [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") for himself also, so that he could keep on [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") the Lord’s praise and praying for His safety? Is not Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions") the Lord’s poet and will not the Āḻvār’s greatness be, therefore, but a reflection of the Lord’s own? Even so, it would not be quite appropriate for him to sing his own glory, albeit the reflected glory of God. And so, the mates are pressed into service and, in essence, it is the [exposition](/definition/exposition#history "show exposition definitions") of the Āḻvār’s God-love, Godhunger and God-thirst, by some of the devotees. Thus, in this decad, the mates are telling the elderly women around about the profusion of the Āḻvār’s love unto the Lord, enshrined in ‘Tolai—villimaṅkalam’, a pilgrim centre in the deep South (Tamilnādu) near about [Āḻvār Tirunakari](/definition/alvar-tirunakari#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār Tirunakari definitions") ([Kurukūr](/definition/kurukur#vaishnavism "show Kurukūr definitions")), the [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") place of the Āḻvār.


