+++
title = "706 Pasuram 6.5.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

துவள் இல் மா மணி மாடம் ஓங்கு தொலைவில்லிமங்கலம் தொழும்  
இவளை நீர் இனி அன்னைமீர்! உமக்கு ஆசை இல்லை விடுமினோ,  
தவள ஒண் சங்கு சக்கரம் என்றும் தாமரைத் தடம் கண் என்றும்,  
குவளை ஒண் மலர்க் கண்கள் நீர் மல்க நின்று நின்று குமுறுமே.

tuvaḷ il mā maṇi māṭam ōṅku tolaivillimaṅkalam toḻum  
ivaḷai nīr iṉi aṉṉaimīr! umakku ācai illai viṭumiṉō,  
tavaḷa oṇ caṅku cakkaram eṉṟum tāmarait taṭam kaṇ eṉṟum,  
kuvaḷai oṇ malark kaṇkaḷ nīr malka niṉṟu niṉṟu kumuṟumē.

**English translation of verse 6.5.1:**

Ye, mothers, this lady is unto you lost henceforth,  
Better give up all hopes of her, who the Lord does adore  
In Tolaivillimaṅkalam where stand tall castles paved with gems flawless,  
With a mind that whirls and tears welling in her flowery eyes;  
Utter she can’t the words she feels the urge to express,  
“The Lord’s lotus eyes broad and His lovely white conch and discus”.

#### Note

King Janaka showed the horoscope of baby Sītā to the court astrologers. While predicting her great good fortune of getting married to the Supreme Lord and all that, they also foretold her exile into the forests. So also, when Caṭakōpaṉ was born, his parents elicited from the astrologers that he would be endowed with supreme knowledge and become world famous and yet, there was the great risk of their losing him, if ever they took him to Tolaivillimaṅkalam. The devout parents could not, however, resist the natural urge to take their child to the shrine in the forbidden place, come what may. The high destiny of the God-bound souls and their aim, none and nothing can avert. The resultant position, insofar as Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī is concerned, the prophesy come true, is set out here by her mates. Actually, the mates come into the picture, only when the elderly women seek their aid for finding a way out of the trancestate into which the Nāyakī has worked herself up, on seeing minutely every little bit of the pilgrim centre, the temple and the Deity. Temples and pilgrim centres are not places to hurry through, like a race-horse, but to be paced through leisurely, reverentially beholding the towers and turrets. The buildings loom large in the rapturous eyes of the Nāyakī and look like tall castles, paved with flawless rubies. And then, she beholds the Lord’s enthralling Form, His holy weapons and ornaments and gets completely absorbed in admiration of them all. She stands isolated from her folks and finding that she has gone out of hand, the elders seek the good offices of her mates to pull her out of this engrossment. But the mates haven’t anything encouraging to say nor is there any point in putting up a bund after all the water has escaped. They do not mince matters either; they admonish the elders for having brought the Nāyakī to this pilgrim centre, knowing full well her susceptibilities. At the same time, the mates throw a very useful hint to the elders, that they would do well to follow in the Nāyakī’s foot-steps and get absorbed in the Deity and the surroundings, rather than give her up, as incorrigible. It is indeed a sight for Gods, the ravishing love of the Saint, throbbing with Godlove, during those blissful moments of communion with the Lord. The Elders are, therefore, advised by the mates to behold, with admiration, the rapturous state of the Nāyakī whose expression falters, choked with emotion, like unto a cow, whose calf is tethered, away from her, pining for the calf to be fed with the milk welling up her teats and yet, unable to express, by mouth, her painful longing to reach her calf.


