+++
title = "733 Pasuram 6.7.2"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

ஊரும் நாடும் உலகமும் தன்னைப்போல் அவனுடைய  
பேரும் தார்களுமே பிதற்ற கற்பு வான் இடறி,  
சேரும் நல் வளம்சேர் பழனத் திருக்கோளூர்க்கே,  
போரும் கொல் உரையீர் கொடியேன் கொடி பூவைகளே!

ūrum nāṭum ulakamum taṉṉaippōl avaṉuṭaiya  
pērum tārkaḷumē pitaṟṟa kaṟpu vāṉ iṭaṟi,  
cērum nal vaḷamcēr paḻaṉat tirukkōḷūrkkē,  
pōrum kol uraiyīr koṭiyēṉ koṭi pūvaikaḷē!

**English translation of verse 6.7.2:**

Ye, Pūvai birds, this sinner’s daughter, who makes  
The whole world, hall and hamlet, prattle like herself the Lord’s names  
And His insignia, breaking the bounds of modesty, has it seems  
Reached Tirukkōḷūr, rich and fertile; will you unto me utter  
If she would at least for your sake come back here?

#### Notes

\(i\) The mother enquiries of the little pūvai birds, the playmates of Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī, whether she would come back, at least for their sake. She is so dazed that she is not conscious of the fact that she can’t expect a reply from the speechless birds.

\(ii\) The mother is at a loss to understand why her daughter should at all go elsewhere, in search of the Godly, having herself induced God-consciousness in one and all, in her native place itself, where every one keeps uttering the Lord’s holy names and attributes like her. It is noteworthy that, to saints, the utterance of the holy name of God is so preciously sweet that they imagine, the whole world sings forth like themselves. The world is indeed acceptable to them when they invest it with their own divine sentiments and see God everywhere; otherwise, it becomes detestable, just like the Kingdom of Ayodhya itself, detested by Bharata, when Rāma was not there. Śrī Nampiḷḷai puts it that the mother questions the necessity for the Nāyakī going all the way to Tirukkōḷūr, while she could as well enjoy all that felicity in her native surroundings, the mutual enlightenment and entertainment in the domain of God-love, in the company of kindred souls.


