+++
title = "745 Pasuram 6.8.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

பொன் உலகு ஆளீரோ? புவனி முழுது ஆளீரோ?,  
நல் நலப் புள்ளினங்காள்! வினையாட்டியேன் நான் இரந்தேன்,  
முன் உலகங்கள் எல்லாம் படைத்த முகில்வண்ணன் கண்ணன்,  
என் நலம் கொண்ட பிரான் தனக்கு என் நிலைமை உரைத்தே?.

poṉ ulaku āḷīrō? puvaṉi muḻutu āḷīrō?,  
nal nalap puḷḷiṉaṅkāḷ! viṉaiyāṭṭiyēṉ nāṉ irantēṉ,  
muṉ ulakaṅkaḷ ellām paṭaitta mukilvaṇṇaṉ kaṇṇaṉ,  
eṉ nalam koṇṭa pirāṉ taṉakku eṉ nilaimai uraittē?.

**English translation of verse 6.8.1:**

Ye, birds of manners good, this sinner does entreat  
That you should unto the cloud-hued Lord, Who did create  
The worlds, the Benefactor, Who in me instilled love so great,  
Report my condition; I will then unto you grant  
The right to rule the entire Earth and Heaven grand.

#### Notes

\(i\) Two special points are made out, in this song. No reward is too great for those who mediate between us and God, not even the Earth and Heaven, put together. Therefore it is, aphorism 432 of ‘Śrī Vacaṉa Bhūṣaṇa’ avers that it would be possible to recompense theĀcāryā, in an adequate measure only if there were four vibhūtīs and two Gods. The idea is that any reward, short of both the worlds (the Nitya Vibhūti or the Eternal Land and the Līlā vibhūti or the sportive Universe) and God Himself, will be inadequate and, in order to make a suitable reward, two sets of each would be necessary, an obvious impossibility.

\(ii\) Again, the Āḻvrā’s greatness is such that he has the power to grant to whomsoever he wishes, sovereignty over Earth and Heaven. God’s love for the Saints is so great that they are endowed with the Lord’s own powers, in this respect. Only a superficial observer, who is just puzzled over the Āḻvār falling at the feet of birds and bees to carry his message to the Lord, will question the Āḻvār’s competence, as above. The questioner will do well to realise that the Āḻvār has been deliberately kept on, in this world, by the munificent Lord, so as to bequeath to His devotees, the nectarean hymns to subsist on. The Lord is indeed so pliable unto the Āḻvār that He unreservedly places Himself and all His possessions at his disposal. The messages, such as those featured in this decad, are but facets of the Āḻvār’s God-love of matchless intensity.

\(iii\) Tradition has it that Aruḷāḷapperumāḷ Emperumāṉār (a disciple of Śrī Rāmānuja) made a request to Kūrattaḷvāṉ (an intimate disciple of Rāmānuja) to plead with Lord Raṅganātha to take the former to Heaven. Instances of this kind could easily be multiplied.


