+++
title = "785 Introduction to Section 7.1"

+++
In [Bhagavad Gītā](/definition/bhagavad-gita#vaishnavism "show Bhagavad Gītā definitions") (7-14), the Lord stated that those who take refuge in Him alone can get beyond [Māyā](/definition/maya#vaishnavism "show Māyā definitions") ([Prakṛti](/definition/prakriti#vaishnavism "show Prakṛti definitions")). Then and then only, the ‘Prakṛti’ helps towards liberation instead of hindering by concealing the real [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") of the Lord. The net woven around each individual soul by the Almighty Lord, in the light of past [Karma](/definition/karma#vaishnavism "show Karma definitions"), has to be disentangled by Him alone, seeing that we are much-too-feeble and cannot disentangle even the nest built by a frail [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions"), in the manner it does. Only He can undo this [bondage](/definition/bondage#history "show bondage definitions") of ours, when we clasp His holy feet as the Sole Saviour. It was against this background that the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") sought refuge at the feet of the Lord at Tiruvēṅkaṭam in VI-10-10. But then, it didn’t yield the desired result immediately. Why was it so?

Who indeed can question the love and integrity of [Bharata](/definition/bharata#vaishnavism "show Bharata definitions") who did ‘Prapatti’ (surrender) unto [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions"), begging of Him to get back to [Ayodhyā](/definition/ayodhya#vaishnavism "show Ayodhyā definitions") and take up the reins of the Kingdom? Why did Bharat’s surrender not meet with quick response? Well, the Ṛṣis of Daṇḍakāraṇya had surrendered unto [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") earlier and He had promised them succour from the depredations of the [Rākṣasas](/definition/rakshasa#vaishnavism "show Rākṣasas definitions"). Bound by this earlier commitment, Śrī Rāma could not obviously comply with Bharata’s request. Even so, some would appear to have surrendered unto the Lord prior to the point of time at which the Āḻvār did ‘Prapatti’, praying that they be blest with hymns *par excellence* for their uplift. As a matter of fact, the clue to this kind of inference can be had in X-7-5 which indicates the root-cause for the emergence of [Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions"), as such. That crucial stanza brings out: The sages met at a conclave and decided that they should pray unto the Lord for the [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") of a work of this kind, which will do adequate justice in bringing out the Lord’s inherent nature, form, attributes, wealth and deeds. This was again due to the fact that they found the [Sanskrit](/definition/sanskrit#history "show Sanskrit definitions") Vedantās ([upaniṣads](/definition/upanishad#vaishnavism "show upaniṣads definitions")), meant to expatiate on the Lord’s greatness and grandeur, lagging far behind and retreating, admitting defeat—‘yato vāco nivartante’. The Lord Himself [sang](/definition/sang#history "show sang definitions") the Tiruvāymoḻi through Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions") as His mouthpiece. Once Tiruvāymoḻi came into being, the sages found it had done full Justice to their cherished objectives and fully covered the various facets of the Lord, enumerated above, with the result that they very much wished that the Lord had still more attributes, treasures etc., so that they can have another work of such excellence, a complete reversal of their attitude towards the Upaniṣads.

And so, it is clear that the Lord deliberately delayed the consummation of the Āḻvār’s ‘Prapatti’ so as to get all the 1102 hymns from his sweet lips, the full length of this splendid treatise which would have otherwise remained truncated.

In this decad, the Āḻvār follows up the trend of thought as in VI-9-9 where he dreaded the mischief of the senses and the frightful possibility of his going astray in the event of the prolongation of his stay in this abode. It might, however, be questioned why the Āḻvār, who was well beyond the mischief of the senses, having taken a deep plunge into the ocean of divine consciousness, should dread in this manner. For this, the Āḻvār has himself provided the answer. This land is notorious for its corrupting influence, bringing within its dirty pale even the ‘[Nitya](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nitya definitions") [Sūrīs](/definition/suri#history "show Sūrīs definitions")’, the Attendants in close proximity to the Lord in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"), should they ever happen to come on to this soil. Further, when a person sees the [houses](/definition/house#history "show houses definitions") ail around, on fire, he has got to apprehend the danger of his own [house](/definition/house#history "show house definitions") [catching](/definition/catching#history "show catching definitions") fire and safeguard it. A [rope](/definition/rope#history "show rope definitions") lying by the side of an anti-hill, the hide-out of [serpents](/definition/serpent#history "show serpents definitions"), is easily mistaken for a [serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show serpent definitions"). So also, the Āḻvār possessing a body like unto that of the worldlings, grows apprehensive about himself, finding those other persons dominated by the wayward senses.


