+++
title = "799 Pasuram 7.2.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கங்குலும் பகலும் கண் துயில் அறியாள் கண்ண நீர் கைகளால் இறைக்கும்,  
சங்கு சக்கரங்கள் என்று கை கூப்பும் தாமரைக் கண் என்றே தளரும்,  
எங்ஙனே தரிக்கேன் உன்னைவிட்டு என்னும் இரு நிலம் கை துழா இருக்கும்,  
செங்கயல் பாய் நீர்த் திருவரங்கத்தாய்! இவள் திறத்து என் செய்கின்றாயே? (2)

kaṅkulum pakalum kaṇ tuyil aṟiyāḷ [kaṇṇa](/definition/kanna#history "show kaṇṇa definitions") nīr kaikaḷāl iṟaikkum,  
caṅku cakkaraṅkaḷ eṉṟu kai kūppum tāmaraik kaṇ eṉṟē taḷarum,  
eṅṅaṉē tarikkēṉ uṉṉaiviṭṭu eṉṉum iru [nilam](/definition/nilam#history "show nilam definitions") kai tuḻā irukkum,  
ceṅkayal pāy nīrt tiruvaraṅkattāy! ivaḷ tiṟattu eṉ ceykiṉṟāyē? (2)

**English translation of verse 7.2.1:**

Oh, Lord, reclining in Tiruvaraṅkam where flows water in abundance;  
And the gay [fish](/definition/fish#history "show fish definitions") gambol, this lady knows no sleep, day and night,  
[Tears](/definition/tear#history "show Tears definitions") in torrents from her eyes do flow and she with her palms [bails](/definition/bail#history "show bails definitions") them out;  
Utters she with joined palms, “Oh conch,”, “Oh discus”, “these are the lotus eyes”,  
She says and reels, all earth she gropes for her Lord from whom she can’t bear  
Being apart, what indeed do you intend doing with her?

**Notes:**

\(i\) The worldlings are steeped in sleep, both day and night, while the Celestials in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") have neither nights nor sleep. The Nāyakī also knows no sleep, like the Celestials. It is said that she knows no sleep instead of saying that she doesn’t sleep, because when in communion with the Lord, He wouldn’t allow her to sleep and, when away from Him, she is so disconsolate and dejected that she just can’t sleep. Either way, sleep is unknown to her.

\(ii\) Tears trickling down the cheeks copiously could be a common occurrence in the case of devout contemplation of the Lord’s auspicious traits and heroic deeds. Bailing out the tears with the Nāyakī’s palms, denotes

' the abundance of tears like the water in the river Cauvery flowing around. Reference to the fish joyfully [dancing](/definition/dancing#history "show dancing definitions") in the river waters carries with it the suggestion that even as the fish cannot stay out of water, the Nāyakī can’t stay apart from the Lord. Delirious that she is, she can still behold the Lord in His iconic Form right in front and suddenly she exclaims, “here is the conch, here ḷs the discus, here are the lotus-eyes” and so on. As one subsisting solely on Him, she can’t bear being apart from Him and she says so. Even then, she can’t find Him beside her and she runs her fingers through the whole Earth in search of Him, as if He is handy, like taking sandal paste from a porcelain cup.

\(iii\) The mother exhibits the love-smitten Nāyakī even as the Ṛṣis of Daṇḍakāraṇya showed [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") their emaciated bodies, tortured and tormented by the [Rākṣasas](/definition/rakshasa#vaishnavism "show Rākṣasas definitions") and enquires of Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions") what He proposes to do with her daughter, as the Lord’s remembrance of the individual in the light of his ultimate redemption, is the only ‘Means’ for his [salvation](/definition/salvation#history "show salvation definitions"), (see also aphorism 66 of Śrīvacanabhūṣaṇa [Śrīvacanabhūṣaṇam]).


