+++
title = "803 Pasuram 7.2.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

சிந்திக்கும் திசைக்கும் தேறும் கை கூப்பும் திருவரங் கத்துள்ளாய்! என்னும்  
வந்திக்கும், ஆங்கே மழைக் கண்ணீர் மல்க வந்திடாய் என்றுஎன்றே மயங்கும்,  
அந்திப்போது அவுணன் உடல்இடந்தானே! அலை கடல் கடைந்த ஆர்அமுதே,  
சந்தித்து உன் சரணம் சார்வதே வலித்த தையலை மையல் செய்தானே!

cintikkum ticaikkum tēṟum kai kūppum tiruvaraṅ kattuḷḷāy! eṉṉum  
vantikkum, āṅkē maḻaik kaṇṇīr malka vantiṭāy eṉṟueṉṟē mayaṅkum,  
antippōtu avuṇaṉ uṭaliṭantāṉē! alai kaṭal kaṭainta āramutē,  
cantittu uṉ caraṇam cārvatē valitta taiyalai maiyal ceytāṉē!

**English translation of verse 7.2.5:**

Oh, Lord, Avuṇaṉ’s body you tore off at twilight,  
You are the Nectar insatiable that churned the ocean,  
You have the heart of this lady stolen,  
With resolve firm to join you and stay at your feet,  
Dwindles she in contemplation of her erstwhile union;  
Suddenly rallies round and with joined palms and head bent,  
She calls out, “Oh, Lord in Tiruvaraṅkam”, and [tears](/definition/tear#history "show tears definitions") from her eyes do rain,  
“You haven’t come, You haven’t come”, she utters and faints.

**Notes:**

\(i\) Turning the searchlight inward, the Nāyakī finds that a soul, badly caught up in the vortex of worldly [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), with its terrific involvement in a recurring cycle of [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") and [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions"), was attracted by the Lord’s bewitching eyes, had the blissful union with Him for a while, only to be deserted by Him as at present. Contemplating thus, she breaks down and even then, her palms are joined in reverence, a unique feature of hers, under all circumstances.

\(ii\) Despite the Lord having taken up His abode in Tiruvaraṅkam, in His worshippable (Iconic) Form, it is indeed distressing that He hasn’t obliged the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") with His presence. Did He not assume the Form of Narasinga and keep Himself ready for emergence at the precise moment, where and when His presence would be demanded, all for the sake of the young lad, [Prahlāda](/definition/prahlada#vaishnavism "show Prahlāda definitions"), son of Avuṇaṉ ([Hiraṇya](/definition/hiranya#history "show Hiraṇya definitions"))?

\(iii\) *[Stealing](/definition/stealing#history "show Stealing definitions") the heart of this lady*: It was just because a mere crow inflicted a slight injury son the person of His beloved consort, [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") sent ‘[Brahmāstra](/definition/brahmastra#vaishnavism "show Brahmāstra definitions")’, a super-missile, in hot pursuit of the little creature, literarally applying heroic remedies for petty maladies. Even so, He took great [pains](/definition/pain#history "show pains definitions") to enthral a petty soul like the Āḻvār’s and the latter gave away her heart unto Him, in sweet contemplation of this great gesture on His part.

\(iv\) The three successive stages of love to God, indicated in this song, are worth noting. These are *Recollection, Trance* and *Rallying—recollection* of all the past ravishments vouchsafed by the benign Lord, trance, fainting in desolation caused by such recollection in the light of the present state of non-enjoyment and *rallying*, that is, the sudden lucidity while in the trance state considered to be very dangerous indeed. The momentary lucidity in a delirious state, is akin to the sudden [lighting](/definition/lighting#history "show lighting definitions") up of consciousness in a person under the spell of death-coma or the sudden flicker of the dying light. That was the reason why Nañciyar exclaimed, with great fright, when Uyntapiḻlai, cīyar’s disciple, recited this song, “Woe unto her (Saint’s) lucidity! I am undone”.


