+++
title = "825 Pasuram 7.4.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஆழிஎழ சங்கும் வில்லும்எழ, திசை  
வாழிஎழ தண்டும் வாளும்எழ, அண்டம்  
மோழைஎழ முடி பாதம்எழ, அப்பன்  
ஊழிஎழ உலகம் கொண்டவாறே (2)

āḻieḻa caṅkum villumeḻa, ticai  
vāḻieḻa taṇṭum vāḷumeḻa, aṇṭam  
mōḻaieḻa muṭi pātameḻa, appaṉ  
ūḻieḻa ulakam koṇṭavāṟē (2)

**English translation of verse 7.4.1:**

Oh, how wonderful! the way the Benefactor great spanned the worlds,  
The discus, first to grow tall like unto the Lord,  
Was by the conch, bow, mace and sword followed;  
Benedictory shouts from all directions went up,  
The massive globe got pierced and bubbling came up  
Peripheral waters, the Lord’s crown and feet moving up,  
And for [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions"), the good days showed themselves up.

**Note**

The breath-taking expansion of the Lord as [Trivikrama](/definition/trivikrama#vaishnavism "show Trivikrama definitions"), spanning the entire Universe, up and below, is mentioned first. When the [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions") embarks on a mighty undertaking, his immediate attendants vie with each other in exhibiting their eagerness to ensure its successful achievement. When [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") set out on exile, [Lakṣmaṇa](/definition/lakshmana#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmaṇa definitions") was the first to step forward to accompany Him. Likewise, when the Lord started expanding upward, His discus, the principal [weapon](/definition/weapon#history "show weapon definitions"), was the first to expand, the other [weapons](/definition/weapon#history "show weapons definitions") following suit. In Śrī Nampiḷḷai’s unique way of putting things, the discus coolly stuck to the Lord’s hand so that when the Lord rose high up, it could automatically go up; actually, the amazing rapidity with which the Lord rose up made the discus sceptical of keeping pace with the Lord through its own effort and hence this device. The luminous discus shone with extra brilliance while the conch bellowed forth, striking terror in the hearts of the ungodly. The discus has always had a dominant role to play in all the [Avatāras](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāras definitions") of the Lord. During His advent as Rāma, the aura of the discus permeated the bow, the same aura charged itself into the bent tooth, long and protruding, of the great [Boar](/definition/boar#history "show Boar definitions") ([varāha](/definition/varaha#vaishnavism "show varāha definitions")), into [Narasiṃha](/definition/narasimha#history "show Narasiṃha definitions")’s nails and [Paraśu Rāma](/definition/parashurama#vaishnavism "show Paraśu Rāma definitions")’s axe. It was the discus that spoilt the eye of [Śukrācārya](/definition/shukracarya#vaishnavism "show Śukrācārya definitions"), the high priest of the Asuras, assuming the shape of the twisted grass in [Vāmana](/definition/vamana#history "show Vāmana definitions")’s finger. Ever sharp, the alert discus would dart forth from the Lord’s hand and instantly hit the target, the Lord wishes to attack, the moment He thinks of it. (Śudarśana śatakam)  
Iṉ this marvellous expansion, the Lord’s crown and feet seemed to rise together. With the ascent of the Lord and His appendages, in this manner, the good days were also coming up for the down-trodden Devas. The entire scene is presented by the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), as if it was a contemporaneous event televised.


