+++
title = "84 Pasuram 1.7.1"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

பிறவித்துயர் அற ஞானத்துள் நின்று.  
துறவிச் சுடர் விளக்கம் தலைப்பெய்வார்,  
அறவனை ஆழிப்படை அந்தணனை,  
மறவியை இன்றி மனத்து வைப்பாரே.

piṟavittuyar aṟa ñāṉattuḷ niṉṟu.  
tuṟavic cuṭar viḷakkam talaippeyvār,  
aṟavaṉai āḻippaṭai antaṇaṉai,  
maṟaviyai iṉṟi maṉattu vaippārē.

**English translation of verse 1.7.1:**

(Oh, what a pity!) the Lord, gracious and immaculate, Sporting the effulgent discus, is tenaciously sought By those votaries wanting no more than to liberate Themselves from the miseries of birth and death and get lost in a state of ‘Self-enjoyment’ (of the Soul in its free state).

**Note**

Oh, what a pity! After ail the rigours of their disciplines, the ‘*Kevalas*’ rest contented with mere liberation from the cycle of birth and death, followed by⁴ ātmāvalokana’ (i.e.) enjoyment of their own selves in the disembodied state. The tragedy of it is heightened by the fact that they invoked the Lord’s grace for attaining this state but failed to be enthralled by His exquisite charm. The Āḻvār detests these people for this tragic failure resulting in their foregoing, for ever, the superior bliss of service unto the Lord. No doubt, in 1-5-7, the Āḻvār would appear to have had a word of praise for the ‘*Kevaḻas*’ but that was in a different context. It may be recalled that the Āḻvār, then stung by a gnawing apprehension of his abject lowliness, felt that possession of a body was fraught with the serious risk of his contaminating and defiling the Lord by mixing with Him and that a disembodied state of existence, as in the case of the ‘Kevalas would, therefore, be quite welcome, being the lesser of the two evils.


