+++
title = "877 Pasuram 7.8.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

மாயா! வாமனனே! மதுசூதா நீ அருளாய்,  
தீயாய் நீர் ஆய் நிலன் ஆய் விசும்பு ஆய் கால் ஆய்,  
தாயாய் தந்தையாய் மக்களாய் மற்றுமாய் முற்றுமாய்,  
நீயாய் நீ நின்றவாறு இவை என்ன நியாயங்களே! (2)

[māyā](/definition/maya#vaishnavism "show māyā definitions")! vāmaṉaṉē! matucūtā nī aruḷāy,  
tīyāy nīr āy [nilaṉ](/definition/nilan#history "show nilaṉ definitions") āy vicumpu āy kāl āy,  
tāyāy tantaiyāy makkaḷāy maṟṟumāy muṟṟumāy,  
nīyāy nī niṉṟavāṟu ivai eṉṉa niyāyaṅkaḷē! (2)

**English translation of verse 7.8.1:**

Pray, reveal unto me Your facets many, oh, Vāmaṉā!  
My wondrous Lord, You slew the demons, ([Madhu](/definition/madhu#vaishnavism "show Madhu definitions") and [Kaiṭabha](/definition/kaitabha#vaishnavism "show Kaiṭabha definitions")),  
You are the elements five and of us all, the mother, the father  
And the progeny too and all else one can, by name, utter,  
As well as those one can’t utter; I can’t comprehened how You are  
Your Form unique and also stand in all things everywhere!

**Notes:**

Many indeed are the wonders performed by the Lord. As [Vāmana](/definition/vamana#history "show Vāmana definitions"), the Midget, He went to Mahābali, as soon as He emerged, compelled his attention, got the donation of land of three strides, expanded Himself and spanned the entire universe; He crushed to [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions"), the demons Madhu and [Kaitabha](/definition/kaitabha#vaishnavism "show Kaitabha definitions") under His thigh; He is at once fire and water, father and mother and their progeny as well, a unique position, none else can hold. Fire cannot be water and water cannot be fire; mother is different from father and the children are altogether separate entities. Well, all these pertain to His attribute of being all-pervading, His cosmic or universal form. And yet, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") could enjoy, with perfect mental equanimity the Lord’s resplendent personal Form, as in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"), the perennial spring of nectar which the denizens over there drink deep all the time, as well as His universal Form, permeating all things, all over. This is because His immanence is a matter of superb wonder which keeps the Saint aghast.


