+++
title = "878 Pasuram 7.8.2"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

அங்கண் மலர்த் தண் துழாய்முடி அச்சுதனே! அருளாய்,  
திங்களும் ஞாயிறும் ஆய் செழும் பல் சுடர் ஆய் இருள் ஆய்,  
பொங்கு பொழி மழை ஆய் புகழ் ஆய் பழி ஆய் பின்னும்நீ,  
வெங்கண்வெங் கூற்றமும் ஆம் இவை என்ன விசித்திரமே!

aṅkaṇ malart taṇ tuḻāymuṭi accutaṉē! aruḷāy,  
tiṅkaḷum ñāyiṟum āy ceḻum pal cuṭar āy iruḷ āy,  
poṅku poḻi maḻai āy pukaḻ āy paḻi āy piṉṉumnī,  
veṅkaṇveṅ kūṟṟamum ām ivai eṉṉa vicittiramē!

**English translation of verse 7.8.2:**

Oh, Accuta, wearing on Your lovely locks tuḷacī garland cool,  
With honey-studded flowers, pray let me know what the wonder is,  
That You are the Sun, the Moon, the bright stars in broad expanse,  
And darkness too, the rains torrential, fame and ill-fame as well,  
And then, the unrelenting Death with cruel eyes.

**Notes:**

\(i\) Towards the end of the last song, the Āḻvār contemplated the Lord’s exquisite personal Form. That has led him on to the description of the tuḷacī-bedecked locks of the Lord in this song.

\(ii\) The Sun generates enervating heat while the Moon spreads its radiance, cool and refreshing; the stars and planets affect people both ways, for good and bad; darkness, the antithesis of light, provides a facile cover for the lewd and the thief; the rains help to raise the crops to feed the lives of creatures; the Lord directs and controls all these and He is also the much-sought-after praise as well as the disdainful opprobrium; when the people in different worlds, commit unpardonable moral transgressions, He functions, as the unrelenting Agent of dissolution of the universe, being Yama’s Yama. ‘Mṛtyu’ (Yama, the deity of death) is like unto the pickles in the eating plate. The pickles, with their appetising flavour and agreeable taste, serve as elective media for consuming food with great relish and ultimately, what remains of the pickles in the plate, is also consumed. Yama, functioning as the Lord’s appointed agent for dissolution, is also consumed by the Lord likewise, at the end of each Epoch, marked by the great Deluge. The upaniṣads say: “Mṛtyur yasya upasecanaṃ”. The Āḻvār seeks clarification from the Lord how He could at once be all these things notwithstanding their mutual incompatibility.




