+++
title = "889 Introduction to Section 7.9"

+++
It was indeed the Lord’s ingenuity that was in full evidence in the last decad, whereby He could gain time and divert the attention of the Āḻvār, astounded by the bewildering net-work of His superb wonders. In fact, we have seen this kind of happening all along, the appeasement of the Āḻvār at every turn by the Lord, exhibiting one or the other of His special traits and prolonging his stay in this abode. But now, the Āḻvār is determined to clinch the issue and demand of the Lord, what precisely makes Him resort to such tantalising tactics, without responding to the request made by him far back, in the opening song of his very first hymnal (Tiruviruttam) that he should be lifted from this foul body, full of dirt and devilry. Was there anything wanting in regard to his yearning or did the Lord’s capacity to salve him decline? No, neither this nor that. But then, why should the Lord extend his stay in this cussed land with its sordid surroundings? Well, this is precisely the Āḻvār’s query unto the Supreme Lord, to which the Lord’s answer is “Āḻvār! You jolly well know my intention and yet speak as if you are ignorant. Well, I have kept you in this abode to get from you the soul-stirring hymns of unparalleled sweetness for the edification and enjoyment of Myself and My devotees even as I kept the wise Bhīsma in the specially erected bed of arrows for quite some length of tune and enriched the world through the dissemination of knowledge by that great Savant”. The Āḻvār feels overawed by the Lord’s tender solicitude and extraordinary love for him and exclaims: “My Lord, You are known to be above all wants and it is indeed very strange that you too should be suffering from a want like this. Even assuming that you have one such desire, You could have easily got it fulfilled by sages Vālmīki, Vyāsa, Parāśara and others of that eminent order or by the first three Āḻvārs, the divine bards, *par excellence*. It is indeed amazing that You should have chosen me, the lowliest of the lowly, absolutely ill-equipped, for this great assignment. This is indeed the limit of Your loving condescension.”

And so, in this decad, the Āḻvār gratefully acknowledges the Lord’s great gesture, perplexed a good deal, at the same time, over his own inability to recompense Him.


