+++
title = "890 Pasuram 7.9.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

என்றைக்கும் என்னை உய்யக்கொண்டு போகிய,  
அன்றைக்கு அன்று என்னைத் தன்னாக்கி என்னால் தன்னை,  
இன் தமிழ் பாடிய ஈசனை ஆதியாய்-  
நின்ற என் சோதியை, என் சொல்லி நிற்பனோ? (2)

eṉṟaikkum eṉṉai uyyakkoṇṭu pōkiya,  
aṉṟaikku aṉṟu eṉṉait taṉṉākki eṉṉāl taṉṉai,  
iṉ [tamiḻ](/definition/tamil#history "show tamiḻ definitions") pāṭiya īcaṉai ātiyāy-  
niṉṟa eṉ cōtiyai, eṉ colli niṟpaṉō? (2)

**English translation of verse 7.9.1:**

Strayed I from the Lord for long and yet He did admit  
Me unto His fold firm and blest me in ample measure,  
Knowledge, strength and all He did on me shower,  
Putting me with Him on a par and by His charm exquisite  
Inspired me and brought out this hymnal sweet  
How can I His grace galore express indeed?

**Notes:**

The Saint thaws down in gratitude over the Lord’s enormous grace in getting hymnals sung through him, duly equipping him for this assignment. Indeed, the outpourings of Saints are all inspired by God and therefore it is that the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") does not claim authorship for the hymnal, sung by the Lord through him as His mouth-piece. This hymnal is claimed to be sweet because the authorship vests in the Lord. Otherwise, it ill-becomes a poet to glorify his own [poems](/definition/poem#history "show poems definitions"). As Nampiḷḷai would put it the liberated soul, that goes to [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"), sings there the [Sāma](/definition/sama#history "show Sāma definitions") [Veda](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Veda definitions") in sheer joy. Likewise, the [Alvar](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Alvar definitions") gives vent to his joy by [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") ‘[Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")’ and the Lord, attracted by it, participates in the singing Himself and elaborates. It is just like the teacher holding the finger of the young pupil and [writing](/definition/writing#history "show writing definitions"); the little lad pushes the pencil in one direction and the teacher corrects it and makes good the lapses of the young chap. And again, the Lord set aside the mantle and revealed His exquisite Form to the Āḻvār who stood enthralled by it and shouted with Joy, which, in turn, took the form of this hymnal.


