+++
title = "893 Pasuram 7.9.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

அப்பனை என்று மறப்பன் என் ஆகியே,  
தப்புதல் இன்றி தனைக் கவி தான் சொல்லி,  
ஒப்பிலாத் தீவினையேனை உய்யக்கொண்டு  
செப்பமே செய்து திரிகின்ற சீர்கண்டே?

appaṉai eṉṟu maṟappaṉ eṉ ākiyē,  
tapputal iṉṟi taṉaik [kavi](/definition/kavi#vaishnavism "show kavi definitions") tāṉ colli,  
oppilāt tīviṉaiyēṉai uyyakkoṇṭu  
ceppamē ceytu tirikiṉṟa cīrkaṇṭē?

**English translation of verse 7.9.4:**

How can I, at anytime, forget my Benefactor great,  
Seeing His great love unto me, the sinner great,  
Redeeming me, tending me all along and [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") His glory great  
[Thro](/definition/thro#history "show Thro definitions")’ me, taking care to see no blemish creeps in, at that?

**Notes:**

\(i\) It is not a matter for any wonder if the Lord [sang](/definition/sang#history "show sang definitions") [poems](/definition/poem#history "show poems definitions") of His great glory Himself. But the real wonder is, He chose [Caṭakōpaṉ](/definition/catakopan#vaishnavism "show Caṭakōpaṉ definitions"), ill-equipped for hymning, to sing the songs and ensured, at the same time, their perfe-ectin [perfection?], eliminating the risk of contamination through his association. “It is because of His omniscience and omnipotence that He could achieve this through me” says the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), “notwithstanding my absolute incompetence and my sins galore, involving a good deal of reclamation”.

\(ii\) Empār would reinforce the purport of this song, by saying: “when the Lord preaches directly, as He did, in His Song Celestial ([Bhagavad Gītā](/definition/bhagavad-gita#vaishnavism "show Bhagavad Gītā definitions")), such gospel is indeed absolutely free from blemishes. On the other hand, when our human ingenuity is called into play, in bringing out laudatory hymns, it is laboured out, bearing the mark of our limitations. But when God chooses us as His select instrument for the propagation of His message to the world at large, He Himself speaks, untainted by the imperfections of His [medium](/definition/medium#history "show medium definitions"). As a matter of fact, He rids the medium of all imperfections and it is this that the Āḻvār gratefully acknowledges in this song”.

[c.f. Milton’s exclamation in his swan-song:—“Give me now my lyre, I feel the stirrings of a gift divine, within my bosom blows unearthly fire, Lit by no skill of mine”.]


