+++
title = "90 Pasuram 1.7.7"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

யான் ஒட்டி என்னுள் இருத்துவன் என்றிலன்,  
தான் ஒட்டி வந்து என் தனி நெஞ்சை வஞ்சித்து,  
ஊன் ஒட்டி நின்று என் உயிரில் கலந்து, இயல்  
வான் ஒட்டுமோ? இனி என்னை நெகிழ்க்கவே.

yāṉ oṭṭi eṉṉuḷ iruttuvaṉ eṉṟilaṉ,  
tāṉ oṭṭi vantu eṉ taṉi neñcai vañcittu,  
ūṉ oṭṭi niṉṟu eṉ uyiril kalantu, iyal  
vāṉ oṭṭumō? iṉi eṉṉai nekiḻkkavē.

**English translation of verse 1.7.7:**

In my mind I lodged Him not, on my own;  
Pledged to get in, the Lord did, on His own,  
Enter my mind imperious, unsought,  
Stuck avidly to my body and soul and wrought  
A silent change in me, drawing me unto Him, so well.  
To part from me hence, will such a One agree at all?

**Notes**

\(i\) The Lord entered the Āḻvār’s mind, pledged, as it were, to do so. This would show that the Āḻvār took no initiative in the matter. On the other hand, self-reliant and imperious that he was, he stood aloof, very much away from Him. But once a determined Lord took possession of the Āḻvār, the latter came under His magic spell, just like the miser who yielded to the resolute beggar, in the anecdote cited below.

\(ii\) There was a Brāhman who was an abject miser; another was on his way to this man’s house to get a breakfast. People on the way told the latter that the man he was going to, was the most sordid wretch who would not give food to any one. Undaunted, the beggar sought out the miser and begged for food, showing his great need. The miser was adamant in refusing food but ṭhe beggar would not leave him. The miser had to yield at last and when he asked the beggar to produce his eating plate, the latter opened his garment and showed it. The miser grumbled and exclaimed “He who intends cutting another’s throat, certainly brings ṭhe sword with him”. So saying, he couldn’t help handing over to the persevering, rather provoking beggar, a little bit of rice and sauce to get rid of him.


