+++
title = "917 Introduction to Section 8.1"

+++
In the last decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") longed for the pleasure of [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") [Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions") before the Divine couple at Tiruvāṟaṉviḷai and rendering unto Them other kinds of service as well. But then, the project did not get off the ground and non-fulfilment of his cherished desire made the Āḻvār grow sceptical of the Lord’s bonafides and His ability to concede the wish of His devotees. This [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions") is expressed in this decad.

The Āḻvār feels vexed that he has been thwarted from achieving his desired objective even under the most propitious circumstances. The Divine consorts are beside the Lord, reclining on the serpentbed at Tiruvāṟaṉviḷai, ready to grant him audience and the ‘[Nitya](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nitya definitions") [Sūrīs](/definition/suri#history "show Sūrīs definitions")’ are also around; the Lord is omnipotent and can easily meet the aspirations of the devotees by assuming any Form, suited to the purpose and on his part, the yearning is much-too-deep. And yet, the Āḻvār could not achieve his objective, giving rise to frustration that casts [doubts](/definition/doubt#history "show doubts definitions") in his mind as to whether the well-known traits of the Lord such as His readiness to respond to the requests of His devotees, looking upon their woes as His own, in the sense that they are but His modes etc., have become ineffective, because of him. This was precisely how [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") bemoaned her miserable lot during her captivity in [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"), seriously suspecting [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions")’s intentions and inclinations towards her. As a matter of fact, the saint, subsist solely on the sweet contemplation of the Lord’s auspicious traits and once this vital communication is cut out, they will just cease to exist. The Lord apprehended that the Āḻvār, sunk in despair under the delusion that the Lord’s auspicious traits have dried up, might collapse altogether and, therefore, set at naught his doubts by calling upon him to ponder over all that He had done for him earlier and assuring Him of the due fulfilment of whatever He intended to do further for him. Thus consoled, the Āḻvār feels elevated from the erstwhile depression.


