+++
title = "927 Pasuram 8.1.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

தாள்களை எனக்கே தலைத்தலைச் சிறப்பத்தந் த பேர்உதவிக்கைம்மாறாத்  
தோள்களை ஆரத்தழுவி என்உயிரை அறவிலை செய்தனன் சோதீ,  
தோள்கள் ஆயிரத்தாய்! முடிகள் ஆயிரத்தாய் துணைமலர்க் கண்கள் ஆயிரத்தாய்  
தாள்கள் ஆயிரத்தாய்! பேர்கள்ஆயிரத்தாய் தமியனேன் பெரிய அப்பனே!

tāḷkaḷai eṉakkē talaittalaic ciṟappattan ta pērutavikkaimmāṟāt  
tōḷkaḷai ārattaḻuvi eṉuyirai aṟavilai ceytaṉaṉ cōtī,  
tōḷkaḷ āyirattāy! muṭikaḷ āyirattāy tuṇaimalark kaṇkaḷ āyirattāy  
tāḷkaḷ āyirattāy! pērkaḷāyirattāy tamiyaṉēṉ periya appaṉē!

**English translation of verse 8.1.10:**

With pleasure great, my Soul I have unto You, sold, sure and certain,  
Oh, resplendent Lord, this is indeed in return  
For the unflinching faith in Your feet, You have on me bestowed;  
Shoulders many, crowns in plenty and a vast multitude  
Of lotus eyes and feet many, I see in You, bearing names many.  
My Sire, I know you intend showering on poor me favours many.

**Notes:**

\(i\) Although the Lord has still not obliged the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") with His presence, the latter is jubilant that he has not been contaminated by the worldlings and the Lord’s lovely feet are unto him what [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions") and raiment are for the worldlings. This is indeed a great favour done to the Āḻvār by the great Lord, who has not only made the Āḻvār abhor and abjure the ways of the world but also look upon the Lord as his Sole Sustainer. What is even more, He has chosen the Āḻvār for [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") these hymns of ‘[Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")’ without giving this special assignment even to sages of the eminence of [Vālmīki](/definition/valmiki#vaishnavism "show Vālmīki definitions"), [Vyāsa](/definition/vyasa#vaishnavism "show Vyāsa definitions") and [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") or the first three [Āḻvārs](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvārs definitions"), a piece of special favour, a great felicity, already acknowledged by the Āḻvār in the earlier decad. For this benefaction, the Āḻvār now seeks to recompense the Lord by offering Him his soul, like unto a father putting his arms round the shoulders of his daughter and giving her away in [marriage](/definition/marriage#history "show marriage definitions") to the bridgeroom. In the exuberance of his joy, the Āḻvār seems to have coolly overlooked past history in this regard, his own earlier attempt to barter away his soul, thwarted by an almost immediate realisation that he was trying to give away the Lord’s own, under the erroneous belief that it was his own. Well, even as recently as in the eighth stanza of this very decad, the Āḻvār was conscious of the fact that he, his mind, word, and deed were all swayed by Him and that he had nothing to do with these.

\(ii\) Even as the Āḻvār delightfully made a confounded gift of a thing that didn’t belong to him, the Lord received it with great jubilation, as if it did not already belong to Him, beamed with joy and expanded marvellously by way of expressing His great joy, exhibiting thousands of shoulders, crowns, eyes, feet etc. This is on a par with the Kṣatṛya Kings, in exultation over a great turn of events in their lives, sharing their joy with their favourite queens, in amorous [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions").


