+++
title = "930 Introduction to Section 9.2"

+++
In the last decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") began to suspect that, with his coming into the world, the Lord’s reputation as the repository of many an auspicious trait and the grand ordainer of all things, was becoming extinct. The Āḻvār was, however, brought back to normal thinking by the Lord and the Āḻvār’s misgivings were cleared up in a way. But then, the external perception of the Lord’s exquisite Form and physical contact, longed for by the Saint, did not, as yet, materialise. This, therefore, gave rise to yet another [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions") in the mind of the Āḻvār whether the Lord was keeping away from him on the ground that he was still not quite free from worldly desires. No doubt, the Āḻvār kept himself studiously aloof from the world and its meretritious charms, as far as he could be conscious of it. And yet, the Omniscient Lord might have found traces of worldly desires still lurking inside the Āḻvār unknown to him, and this was perhaps the reason why the Lord was holding back. The Āḻvār. therefore, thought of clearing up even this inkling of a doubt and vindicating his absolute [detachment](/definition/detachment#history "show detachment definitions") from the world and its affairs, but did not open up a direct dialogue with the Lord. Instead, he resorted to the device of informing the Lord and impressing upon  
Him through argumentation between the Nāyakī and her mates and elders, the theme of the dialogue being as follows:

The Nāyakī (Āḻvār) who got separated from the Supreme Lord after her erstwhile union with Him cannot contain herself and patiently await His return. She, therefore, darts forth, in an attempt to meet her Lord in His dwelling place in the yonder region but gets pulled up by her mates for transgression of the norms of feminine conduct and the restraint of modesty which it imposes. The mates counsel patience but it falls on deaf ears. The Nāyakī sternly declines to conform to the so-called norms of the worldlings, being on a pedestal of her own, totally dissociating herself from all things ungodly and fiercely concentrating on her Lord, with no other thought, crossing her mind.

Against this background, the key stanzas of this decad are the seventh, eighth and the eleventh.


