+++
title = "946 Pasuram 8.3.3"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஆளும் ஆளார் ஆழியும் சங்கும் சுமப்பார்தாம்  
வாளும் வில்லும் கொண்டு பின் செல்வார் மற்றுஇல்லை  
தாளும் தோளும் கைகளைஆரத் தொழக்காணேன்  
நாளும் நாளும் நாடுவன் அடியேன் ஞாலத்தே

āḷum āḷār āḻiyum caṅkum cumappārtām  
vāḷum villum koṇṭu piṉ celvār maṟṟuillai  
tāḷum tōḷum kaikaḷaiārat toḻakkāṇēṉ  
nāḷum nāḷum nāṭuvaṉ aṭiyēṉ ñālattē

**English translation of verse 8.3.3:**

Alas! there’s none to attend on my Lord,  
The conch and discus He Himself bears,  
I see none following Him. carrying His bow and sword;  
There’s none to admire His lovely feet and sinewy shoulders  
And worship Him to heart’s fill and so, I do [fear](/definition/fear#history "show fear definitions")  
His safety in this wicked world and Him I wish to follow.

**Notes:**

\(i\) In the last two songs, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") deplored his own loneliness, there being none to join him in whole-hearted and self-less service of the Lord. And now, he feels for the Lord’s loneliness, there being no camp-follower to carry His [weapons](/definition/weapon#history "show weapons definitions") and attend on Him, with utter devotion, swayed by His exquisite charm.

\(ii\) The Āḻvār feels agitated, seeing that the Supreme Lord of the entire universe has not employed any one to attend on Him; deeply touched by His tenderness (saukumārya), the Āḻvār feels that the conch and discus might impose a great burden on Him and that He should, therefore, employ some one to carry them. Well, even if, as some would put it, the conch and the discus are the Lord’s insignia and have to be necessarily borne by Him, why should not some one be pressed into service for carrying His sword and bow? As a matter of fact, during His incarnation as [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions"), there was [Lakṣmaṇa](/definition/lakshmana#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmaṇa definitions") to carry the [bow and arrows](/definition/bow-and-arrow#history "show bow and arrows definitions") and serve Him in every conceivable manner. But now, in His Iconic Form, there is no such attendant and this depresses the Āḻvār, a great deal.

\(iii\) The Lord’s majestic gait and His imposing shoulders are indeed so charming that one can’t but pray that nothing untoward happened and marred the beauty, *par excellence*. And yet, the Āḻvār finds none in this wicked world, attracted to the Lord in this manner. That is why his [fears](/definition/fear#history "show fears definitions") are aggravated and this is particularly relevant in the context of the Lord’s iconic manifestation in this notorious world of miscreants like [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions"), [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions") and [Duryodhana](/definition/duryodhana#vaishnavism "show Duryodhana definitions"), each with his own machinations for harming the Lord during His avatāras as [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") and [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions").


