+++
title = "947 Pasuram 8.3.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஞாலம் போனகம்பற்றி ஓர்முற்றா உருஆகி  
ஆலம்பேர்இலை அன்னவசம்செய்யும் அம்மானே  
காலம்பேர்வதுஓர் கார்இருள் ஊழி ஒத்துஉளதால் உன்  
கோலம்கார்எழில் காணலுற்று ஆழும் கொடியேற்கே

ñālam pōṉakampaṟṟi ōrmuṟṟā uruāki  
ālampērilai aṉṉavacamceyyum ammāṉē  
kālampērvatuōr kāriruḷ ūḻi ottuuḷatāl uṉ  
kōlamkāreḻil kāṇaluṟṟu āḻum koṭiyēṟkē

**English translation of verse 8.3.4:**

Oh, Sire, as a tender babe, You did on a fig-leaf repose,  
Bearing in Your stomach the entire Universe;  
Feast I would on Your Form exquisite like unto a rain-[cloud](/definition/cloud#history "show cloud definitions"),  
And when this Sinner is from it precluded,  
A split-second seems an age like unto the longish night.

**Notes:**

The Lord allays the [fears](/definition/fear#history "show fears definitions") of the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") by pointing out to him, His role as the Protector of the whole Universe and reminding him of how He sustained all the worlds with their numerous contents, right inside His stomach, during the [deluge](/definition/deluge#history "show deluge definitions"). Instead of allaying the Āḻvār’s fears, this episode only stirred up his thoughts in yet another direction, like unto a doting mother. On a vast expanse of water floats a tender fig-leaf on which reposes a tender babe and this babe holds in its stomach all the seven worlds with their massive contents. How incongruous and hence how frightful, the whole setting is! The Āḻvār can think of this babe only in terms of the turbulent One that slept in Yaśodhā’s cradle, after getting fed by her. Whether it was the result of immaturity, the work of a mere babe, the Āḻvār kept wondering. Could not the Lord have assumed a gigantic Form, sprawling far and wide on an equally spacious platform, so as not to frighten God-[lovers](/definition/lover#history "show lovers definitions") of the calibre of the Āḻvār? His boundless love unto the Lord makes him lose all perspective of time-sequence and the Lord’s omnipotence itself, reducing Him to the abject position of a mere ward, under his loving protection. The Āḻvār’s anxiety is whether the Divine Babe lying on a tender leaf, alone and unaided, might slip into the deep waters; at least there was Yaśodhā keeping constant vigil when He slept in the cradle, but now there is none beside the Babe (īṭu).


