+++
title = "948 Pasuram 8.3.5"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

கொடியார்மாடக் கோளூர்அகத்தும் புளியங்குடியும்  
மடியாதுஇன்னே நீதுயில்மேவி மகிழ்ந்ததுதான்  
அடியார் அல்லல்தவிர்த்த அசைவோ? அன்றேல் இப்  
படிதான் நீண்டுதாவிய அசைவோ? பணியாயே.

koṭiyārmāṭak kōḷūrakattum puḷiyaṅkuṭiyum  
maṭiyātuiṉṉē nītuyilmēvi makiḻntatutāṉ  
aṭiyār allaltavirtta acaivō? aṉṟēl ip  
paṭitāṉ nīṇṭutāviya acaivō? paṇiyāyē.

**English translation of verse 8.3.5:**

How is it, my Lord, You lovingly repose and turn not this side or that,  
In kōḷūr and Puḷiṅkuṭi where banners play on castles smart?  
Is it due to the fatigue caused (during Your avatāras)  
When you did many a feat perform to alleviate  
Your devotees’ sufferings or the one that did result  
From the long strides you took to span the world immense?  
Which it is, may You unto me disclose.

**Notes:**

\(i\) Seeing the Āḻvār’s disquietitude over His lying alone on a tender leaf during the deluge, the Lord hastens to reveal unto him a different setting altogether, pertaining to His Iconic Form where He is attended upon by the votaries in their full complement. Mention of just two pilgrim centres, in this song, should be taken as covering the numerous other pilgrim centres where the Lord is reposing on His serpent-bed, such as Śrīraṅgam, Tirumeyyam, Kaṭanmallai, Tiruppēr, Aṉpil, Tiruvekhā etc.

\(ii\) The banners are displayed on house tops in the pilgrim centres, as a measure of decoration. But, in the eyes of the Āḻvār, this looms as a potential danger, helping the ungodly to easily locate this centre and invade it, intent upon harming the Lord enshrined there. Actually, the Āḻvār would want the Lord to remain out of reach of the devilish folks, even as Lord Kṛṣṇa grew up as a babe and then as a boy, in studious seclusion, fearing Kaṃsa’s machinations.

\(iii\) The Lord, in His perfect Iconic Form, is seen reposing in the aforementioned pilgrim centres, since long, all for the sake of redeeming His straying Subjects over here. It is indeed noteworthy, rather praiseworthy that He has not changed His posture even once, by turning right or left and yet, for all this immense hardship undergone by Him, none seems to appreciate it. If the Lord has not got up in sheer disgust and gone back to the Celestium, it is because of His fond hope that, some day, some devotees might turn up and appreciate His great gesture.;

\(iv\) The Lord appears to be relaxing after all the labours undertaken by Him on behalf of Indra, spanning, on the very day of His emergence as Vāmana, all the worlds, high and low, setting His tender feet on hill and dale. The Āḻvār enquires of the Lord whether He would not permit him to massage His shoulders or the feet, whichever needed relief from pain.


