+++
title = "956 Introduction to Section 9.4"

+++
The Lord’s presence, in this dark land, alone and unaided, excited the reasonable [fear](/definition/fear#history "show fear definitions") of the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") that the worldlings would approach Him only to achieve their own selfish ends, with little or no care or love for Him. No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), the Lord allayed the Āḻvār’s [fears](/definition/fear#history "show fears definitions"), as we saw towards the end of the last decad. Still, the Lord has a lingering doubt that, in the exuberance of the Āḻvār’s love for Him, he might once again entertain similar fears about His safety and feel agitated. And so. He wanted to dispel the Āḻvār’s fears, with no chance whatever of their revival and revealed unto him His invulnerable abode in Tirucceṅkuṉṟūr Tirucciṟṟāṟu (in present [Kerala](/definition/kerala#history "show Kerala definitions") State), out of bounds to the ungodly, attended by the mighty band of three thousand [Vedic](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedic definitions") scholars, full of devotion. As a further precaution, the Lord also exhibited unto the Āḻvār, His wondrous deeds revealing His extra-ordinary strength and valour. With his fears thus eradicated *in toto*, the Āḻvār could whole-heartedly enjoy in this decad the Lord’s exquisite beauty.

A striking parallel to this can be found in Lord [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions")’s exhortation to [Sugrīva](/definition/sugriva#vaishnavism "show Sugrīva definitions"), the monkey [king](/definition/king#history "show king definitions"), by way of dispelling his fears regarding [Vibhīṣaṇa](/definition/vibhishana#vaishnavism "show Vibhīṣaṇa definitions")’s admission into their camp. In the heated debate that was going on, opposition to the grant of asylum to Vibhīṣaṇa was mounting high. Interveningin the debate, the Lord asserted, *inter alia*, that He could, if He liked, destroy the [Rākṣasas](/definition/rakshasa#vaishnavism "show Rākṣasas definitions") all the world over (not merely those in [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions")) with the mere tip of His thumb. This was enough to root out Sugrīva’s fears about the possible ill-effects of granting asylum to Vibhīṣaṇa, come down from [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions")’s Laṅkā.

The reassured Sugrīva, the erstwhile leader of the opposition in the debate that preceded, exclaimed:

> “Oh, Rāma, You have a thorough mastery over the subtleties of > [Dharma](/definition/dharma#vaishnavism "show Dharma definitions"); as > the Protector of the entire universe, your creed is to instil > happiness in one and all and it is indeed praiseworthy. I am now quite > clear in my mind about the bonafides of Vibhīṣaṇa and it is but meet > that I myself go up to him, anchored in the mid-air, and bring him > here.”

While [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") quelled the fears of Sugrīva and others in His camp by a mere utterance, as above, Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") set at naught the grim fears of the on-lookers through actual demonstration of His immense strength, making mincemeat of the monstrous [wrestlers](/definition/wrestler#history "show wrestlers definitions"), set up by [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions"), in no time.


