+++
title = "974 Pasuram 8.5.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

சொல்லமாட்டேன் அடியேன் உன்துளங்குசோதித் திருப்பாதம்  
எல்லைஇல் சீர்இள நாயிறு இரண்டுபோல் என்உள்ளவா!  
அல்லல் என்னும் இருள்சேர்தற்கு உபாயம் என்னே? ஆழிசூழ்  
மல்லை ஞாலம் முழுதுஉண்ட மாநீர்க் கொண்டல் வண்ணனே!

collamāṭṭēṉ aṭiyēṉ uṉtuḷaṅkucōtit tiruppātam  
ellaiil cīriḷa nāyiṟu iraṇṭupōl eṉuḷḷavā!  
allal eṉṉum iruḷcērtaṟku upāyam eṉṉē? āḻicūḻ  
mallai ñālam muḻutuuṇṭa mānīrk koṇṭal vaṇṇaṉē!

**English translation of verse 8.5.5:**

Oh, Lord, You are like unto a water-laden [cloud](/definition/cloud#history "show cloud definitions"),  
The worlds, by oceans surrounded, You did in Your stomach hold,  
The radiance within me, shed by Your dazzling feet superfine,  
Like unto a pair of rising Suns, I just can’t define,  
Say then, how I can the affliction dark, of forgetfulness, attain.

**Notes:**

*[Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") to the Lord*:

“My Lord, Your enchanting Form is tormenting my mind without respite; I can survive only if I forget all about this. I can, however, never forget this and I, therefore, pray unto You, my great benefactor, to suggest ways and means of forgetting You altogether”.

*Lord*: “Āḻvār, You haven’t gained my physical presence as yet. It should, therefore, be possible for you to forget me easily”.

*Āḻvār*: “Oh, Sire, have I not told You already (in I-10-10) that I can never more forget You, firmly lodged in my heart? Having cut out my nescience, *in toto*, through Your redemptive grace, Your dazzling feet are in my mind firmly implanted. It is up to You now to solve this riddle and find out some means by which I can forget You and be spared all this misery”.

So then, here is a peculiar problem for the frustrated Āḻvār who can’t have the external enjoyment, intensely longed for by him and is yet continually tormented by the radiance of the Lord’s dazzling feet, shining in his head. The Āḻvār prays unto the Lord to put out this light and induce darkness that can make him forget Him altogether. In Nampiḷḷai’s Īṭu commentary, two interpretations have been set out:

According to [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar, the Āḻvār prays unto the Lord:

> “If You are intent upon tormenting me by withholding from me Your > physical presence, better induce in me the dark nescience, rather > suggest how I can acquire it”.

[Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions") Ammaṅki Ammāl would say: “With Your dazzling feet illumining my mind all the time, there is no room whatever for nescience, the distressing darkness; if such darkness could, however, be induced in me, I can safely align myself with the worldlings and run after [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions") and raiment like them, forgetting You altogether.”


