+++
title = "979 Pasuram 8.5.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

பிறந்தமாயா! பாரதம்பொருதமாயா! நீஇன்னே  
சிறந்தகால் தீநீர்வான் மண்பிறவும்ஆய பெருமானே  
கறந்த பாலுள் நெய்யேபோல் இவற்றுள்எங்கும் கண்டுகொள்  
இறந்து நின்ற பெருமாயா! உன்னை எங்கே காண்கேனே?

piṟantamāyā! pāratamporutamāyā! nīiṉṉē  
ciṟantakāl tīnīrvāṉ maṇpiṟavumāya perumāṉē  
kaṟanta pāluḷ neyyēpōl ivaṟṟuḷeṅkum kaṇṭukoḷ  
iṟantu niṉṟa perumāyā! uṉṉai eṅkē kāṇkēṉē?

**English translation of verse 8.5.10:**

Wondrous indeed are Your incarnations, oh, Lord,  
Many a wonder You did, during the battle of [Bhārata](/definition/bharata#vaishnavism "show Bhārata definitions"), perform,  
The famous elements five and all things from them derived  
Are unto You, the bodies many; like ghee, latent in milk fresh drawn.  
You do in all things mysteriously abide; where can I find you indeed?

**Notes:**

\(i\) No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), the Lord exhibited His amazing simplicity during the Incarnations, betokening His loving condescension. But the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), born at a later time, missed them all. Again, the Lord is said to abide in all beings and things and yet, He cannot be see with the naked eye. Where then could the Lord be seen is the question put by the Āḻvār in this song. He is really worried whether he would just pass away without [realising](/definition/realising#history "show realising definitions") his desire to come face to face with the Lord.

\(ii\) The Lord’s incarnation itself is a matter of great wonder, the birthless Being born, of course, at His sweet will and then His mingling with the rest, with no reservation. The wonders performed by Him, during His incarnation as [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"), were many indeed and, in particular, those bearing on the course and conduct of the great battle of [Mahā Bhārata](/definition/mahabharata#vaishnavism "show Mahā Bhārata definitions") were: Taking up arms, at one stage, contrary to His earlier pledge not to wield any [weapon](/definition/weapon#history "show weapon definitions"), conversion of day into night, spotting out the vital centres of [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), the vulnerable spot in the enemy [attacking](/definition/attacking#history "show attacking definitions") which would prove fatal, so on and so forth.

\(iii\) How could it be asserted that the Invisible Lord resides in all creatures and things? The [Upaniṣad](/definition/upanishad#vaishnavism "show Upaniṣad definitions") provides the answer: “ghrutamiva payasi nigūḍaṃ”. The milk is churned into butter, which again is melted into ghee. But none can, on the face of it, perceive the presence of ghee in milk. And so does the Lord abide unseen in all that exists.


