+++
title = "984 Pasuram 8.6.2"

+++
**Tamil text and transliteration:**

திருக்கடித் தானமும் என்னுடையச் சிந்தையும்  
ஒருக்கடுத்துஉள்ளே உறையும்பிரான் கண்டீர்  
செருக்கடுத்துஅன்று திகைத்த அரக்கரை  
உருக்கெடவாளி பொழிந்த ஒருவனே.

tirukkaṭit tāṉamum eṉṉuṭaiyac cintaiyum  
orukkaṭuttuuḷḷē uṟaiyumpirāṉ kaṇṭīr  
cerukkaṭuttuaṉṟu tikaitta arakkarai  
urukkeṭavāḷi poḻinta oruvaṉē.

**English translation of verse 8.6.2:**

The Lord, who lovingly resides in Tirukkaṭittāṉam and my heart alike,  
Is none but the Warrior great, Who arrows did rain  
On the Asuras, who, filled with pride, had grown  
Violent and war-mad, and destroyed them, in bulk.

**Notes:**

The Āḻvār acknowledges the Lord’s great gesture in quelling the Asuras, symbolic of the clearing up of all the evil forces in him, the impediments that stood in the way of the Lord reclaiming him and thereafter, stepping on to Tirukkaṭittāṉam, the spring-board, whence He was to land right in the Āḻvār’s heart, His ultimate destination. The Lord’s attachment to the Jñāni’s physical form even surpasses His love for the pilgrim centres, where He has condescended to shed His grace on the votaries in His ‘Arca’ Form. This is quite understandable, seeing that the very purpose of His manifestation in ‘Arca’ Form, is only to get hold of His subjects, by some means or the other. And when He gets His catch all right, and a big haul at that, His gratification knows no bounds. The Lord’s stay in the pilgrim centres is thus not an end in itself but only a means for the reclamation of His subjects, His ultimate destination being the heart-centre of the subjects, spiritually regenerated through His redemptive grace. Once the destination is reached, the means employed for reaching it get relegated to a place of secondary importance. It is then the turn of a devotee like Pēy Āḻvār to request the Lord not to relax His interest in the pilgrim centres which operate as the springboard whence the Lord could reach His devotees. It is now a case of the Lord loving the pilgrim centres, firstly, as places adored by His devotees, and secondly, out of gratitude to those centres for helping Him to reclaim the subjects, by making them God-bent (See aphorisms 169-174 of Śrī Vacana Bhūṣaṇam).;


