+++
title = "995 Introduction to Section 9.7"

+++
The bliss enjoyed by the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") in this decad, stands on a pedestal of its own. It can even be asserted that there is no comparable decad in the whole hymnal.

When one pauses and ponders which indeed is the greater of the two pulls, namely, the Lord’s effort to get at the Āḻvār and the Āḻvār’s desire to get at Him, it will be seen that the Lord exerts the greater, naturally, the stronger pull, His desire to get at the subject, His coveted belonging, being supreme. Did He not declare, in His ‘Song Celestial’, that the gnostic, who knows Him truly, is undoubtedly responsible for His very existence and that it is very hard to find a truly discerning devotee who looks upon Him as everything, the highest goal, the Sole Means, Father, Mother, Friend. Refuge, Resting place etc.? It is, therefore, abundantly clear that the Lord considers it His greatest gain to reclaim a [Jīva](/definition/jiva#vaishnavism "show Jīva definitions") (individual soul) and, to this end, He goes on preparing the ground, all the time. His intense longing to get at the individual Soul is virtually the copper plate, establishing His right of ownership over the subject, sought to be reclaimed. And, therefore, the Lord mingles with the Āḻvār with such an inordinate longing. Noticing this, the Āḻvār realises with a stinging sense of [shame](/definition/shame#history "show shame definitions") that he had tried to reverse the role by begging of the Lord for his redemption overlooking the fact that it was the Lord who was all along been the supplicant for the Āḻvār’s love unto Hirn. The Āḻvār acknowledges in this decad with great feeling the enormous love bestowed by the Lord on the individual Soul, as the indefatigable cultivator of God-love in the latter.


