+++
title = "05 Introduction to Section 1.1"

+++
[Note: This work comprises ten centums, or hundred decades, each of which is called a ‘[Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")’, which means ‘Inspired utterance’ as well as ‘Divine speech’, the speech from the holy mouth of the Saint. This is a skilled [poetic](/definition/poetry#history "show poetic definitions") composition in which each stanza begins with the closing word of the previous stanza or the phonetic sound thereof. Unlike the other hymns of the ‘[Divya Prabandha](/definition/divya-prabandha#history "show Divya Prabandha definitions")’, Tiruvāymoḻi is accorded the special status of being chanted only inside the [temples](/definition/temple#history "show temples definitions") or at homes when the Deity is [seated](/definition/seat#history "show seated definitions") for congregational worship, and not when the Deity is taken out in the [streets](/definition/street#history "show streets definitions") in ceremonial precession.]

In the opening song, the Saint exhorts his chastened mind to adore the dazzling, distress-dispelling feet of the Lord, the Supreme Benefactor, and attain [salvation](/definition/salvation#history "show salvation definitions"). Right at the very start, and that too in the opening [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") itself, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") characterises God as one with perfections, all of the [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") of bliss and love, the natural repository of innumerable auspicious traits of unlimited dimensions and thus easily scores over the ‘[Upaniṣad](/definition/upanishad#vaishnavism "show Upaniṣad definitions")’, which made a futile attempt to gauge the immeasurable bliss of the Supreme Lord and had to acknowledge defeat.[^1]

Such a beginning is the natural corollary to the manner in which the Lord captivated the Āḻvār. It was by exhibiting His innumerable auspicious qualities that the Lord attracted the Āḻvār, and therefore it was that he began with an ardent adoration of those very qualities, literally strangling those philosophising on a God devoid of form, attributes etc. as the illustrious Kūrattāḻvāṉ would put it. Exulting over the fact that we have, on Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammaḻvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions")’s authority, a God of attributes, which ought to silence all those who philosophise on a God devoid of attributes, Kūrattāḷvāṉ would say Viṣṇupurāṇa (VI-5-84) corroborates this: it says the Lord is the essence possessing all blissful perfections. Does not [Karṇa](/definition/karna#vaishnavism "show Karṇa definitions") say, in the [Bhīṣmaparva](/definition/bhishmaparva#vaishnavism "show Bhīṣmaparva definitions") of the [Mahābhārata](/definition/mahabharata#vaishnavism "show Mahābhārata definitions"), that even if all the worlds were assembled together and they were all to praise the perfections of the great victorious [Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions") (born as [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"), son of [Vasudēva](/definition/vasudeva#vaishnavism "show Vasudēva definitions"), bearing the discus, conch and sword) for millions of years it would not be exhaustive? Did not [Tārā](/definition/tara#vaishnavism "show Tārā definitions") tell [Vāli](/definition/vali#vaishnavism "show Vāli definitions"), her husband, that, in [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions"), the noblest glories meet? Again, did not the subjects, assembled in [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions") [Daśaratha](/definition/dasharatha#vaishnavism "show Daśaratha definitions")’s court, proclaim that in all the earth none possessed the excellence of Rāma who, richly blest with graces, was to their hearts very dear? In the eleventh verse of his ‘Stotra [Ratna](/definition/ratna#history "show Ratna definitions")’, Saint [Yāmuna](/definition/yamuna#vaishnavism "show Yāmuna definitions") describes the Lord as one possessing an infinitude of super-excellent, auspicious perfections, conformable to His divine character”.

[^1]:  yato vāco nivartante aprāpya manasāsaḥa.

It may, however, be questioned how the Āḻvār relegated himself to the lower order of submission to the Lord through an appreciation of His auspicious traits instead of being automaticaḷḷy linked up with the Lord by virtue of the inherent trait (Śeṣatva or servitude) of the Individual Soul, as His eternal [servant](/definition/servant#history "show servant definitions"). Actually, it is not a case of relegation, as such, and it has to be taken that all the noblest qualities that converge in the Lord constitute yet another tangible source of attraction for the individual soul. That there has been no departure from the basic stand of Master-servant relationship between the Lord and the Āḻvār is brought out clearly in the fifth centum, third Tiruvāymoḻi, fifth stanza (indicated here and elsewhere by the notation V-3-5). There, in a moment of desolation caused by the snapping of his communion with the Lord, Nammāḻvār bitterly reproaches the Lord, as extremely selfish, unsympathetic, elusive, time-serving, deceitful, unfathomable etc. and yet he finds his ‘tyrannical’ mind clinging to the Lord, as the Sole Refuge, under all circumstances. The examples of [Lakṣmaṇa](/definition/lakshmana#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmaṇa definitions") and [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") can also be brought in here, to clarify the stand of the Āḻvār. According to his own admission to [Hanumān](/definition/hanuman#vaishnavism "show Hanumān definitions") when Lakṣmaṇa first met him in the mountain slope of Ṛśyamūkha [parvata](/definition/parvata#history "show parvata definitions"),[^2] Lakṣmaṇa was enthralled into serving [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") and following him, even in exile, by the latter’s sweet qualities. This does not, however, detract from Lakṣmaṇa’s basic stance. Being an incarnation of Ādiśeṣa (first servant), Lakṣmaṇa was devoted to Rāma, right from the cradle.[^3]

[^2]:  “ahamasyāvaro bhrātā guṇair dāsyaṃ upāgataḥ”.

And in the above context, Lakṣmaṇa merely adduced yet another consideration for his constant attendance on Rāma. Service unto the Lord by virtue of the essentialnature of the individual soul (Śeṣatva), not conditioned by any extraneous consideration or inducements is, no [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), of primary importance and all else is relegated to a secondary place. At the same time, it has to be noted that the Lord and His excellence can never remain apart. Felicitating Sītā on her fidelity to her husband (giving up the Palace and all its wealth and [relatives](/definition/relative#history "show relatives definitions") and following Rāma into exile), Anasūyā [Dēvī](/definition/devi#vaishnavism "show Dēvī definitions"), wife of Sage [Atri](/definition/atri#vaishnavism "show Atri definitions"), exhorted that the husband needs to be venerated as God Himself, be he in town or wood, well or ill. Swayed by modesty, the bashful Sītā stood with down-cast eyes and spoke out: “My love for Rāma is spontaneous and yet, people are likely to construe that I love him because of his excellence, both physical and mental. It is indeed difficult for me to prove that my fidelity to Rāma has no strings attached to it and stands by itself without any external provocation or inducements, as Rāma and his excellence can never remain apart. My fidelity will remain constant even if he were the exact reverse of what he is”.

[^3]:  bālyāt prabrti susnigdha.

The philosophy of ‘[Tattva](/definition/tattva#vaishnavism "show Tattva definitions")’ (truth), ‘Hita’ (Path) and ‘[Puruṣārtha](/definition/purushartha#vaishnavism "show Puruṣārtha definitions")’(goal), elucidated in this work, is presented in a summarised form, in the opening stanza itself, by indicating that ‘Tirumāl’ ([Mahāviṣṇu](/definition/mahavishnu#vaishnavism "show Mahāviṣṇu definitions")) is the Supreme Lord, [worshipping](/definition/worshipping#history "show worshipping definitions") His lustrous feet, the Supreme path, and attainment of those very feet, through His redemptive grace, the highest goal. What a grand start, going straight to the subject on hand! Of the five-fold manifestations of God, namely, ‘Para’, [Vyūha](/definition/vyuha#history "show Vyūha definitions")’, ‘[Vibhava](/definition/vibhava#vaishnavism "show Vibhava definitions")’, ‘[Antaryāmi](/definition/antaryamin#vaishnavism "show Antaryāmi definitions")’ and [Arcā](/definition/arca#history "show Arcā definitions") this decad deals with the ‘Para’ or the transcendental Form of the Lord and the cognate activities.[^4]


[^4]:  Actually, the first two decads of this great work embrace all that has been said in all the four cantos of the ‘Brahma Sūtras’, (the Mīmāṃsaka Śāstra [mīmāṃsāśāstra], already referred to in the Introduction), elucidated in Śrī Rāmānuja’s Śrī Bhāṣya. The first six songs of the first decad cover the first Adhyāya of the Brahma sūtras, the next five songs of that decad convey the contents of the second Adhyāya of the Sūtras, the first eight songs of the second decad (Viṭumiṉ) embrace the third Adhyāya of the sūtras and the next three songs of that decad summarise the fourth and the last canto of the Sūtras. Again, decads three to hundred of Tiruvāymoḻi only elaborate what is already set out in the first two decads.





