+++
title = "1021 Introduction to Section 9.9"

+++
This decad is spelt out by a mate of Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī ([Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), figuratively turned into a female [lover](/definition/lover#history "show lover definitions")). In the entire hymnal, there are three decads of this type and this is the last of the series, the two earlier ones being IV-6 and VI-5. In IV-6, the mate advised the elders, gathered around Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī, who were treading the mis-guided path of invoking minor deities to cure the Nāyakī’s malady, to desist from their wrong methods and smear the Nāyakī’s body with the dust from the feet of Śrī [Vaiṣṇavas](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇavas definitions"). In VI-5, it may be recalled, the mates pointed out to the elders, the futility of their trying to extricate the Nāyakī, completely absorbed in the Deity at [Tolaivillimaṅkalam](/definition/tolaivillimankalam#vaishnavism "show Tolaivillimaṅkalam definitions"), having committed the initial mistake of taking her to that pilgrim centre and then brought her face to face with the Deity there.

The background of this decad is, as follows:

Seeing that Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī (Āḻvār) has come of marriageable age, the parents make known to the folks in the town their intention to get her married to an eligible bachelor. Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī is, however, fiercely steeped in the Supreme Lord. As a matter of fact, she has already had secret contacts with the Lord, enshrined in Kuṭṭanāṭṭu Tiruppuliyūr ([Kerala](/definition/kerala#history "show Kerala definitions") State), of which her parents were not aware. The mate, who enjoys the Nāyakī’s confidence, however, knew about it from the change wrought in the Nāyakī’s person and the manner of her talking, but she was afraid of inviting the wrath of the elders upon herself, in case she publicised the truth about the Nāyakī. At the same time, if the truth was not revealed to the elders, they might go ahead with the unwholesome project of getting the Nāyakī married off locally to some one and embarrass poor Nāyakī who might keep reticent out of shyness. Caught thus, in the [horns](/definition/horn#history "show horns definitions") of a dilemma, the mate hits upon a via-media to tide over the situation. The mate makes it appear that she has just got to know about the Nāyaki’s affair with the Lord at Kuṭṭanāṭṭu. Tiruppuliyūr and points out to the elders that, in view of this development, it would no longer be feasible for them to pursue their former plans. This brings to the fore the Nāyakī’s inalienability from the Lord to whom she stands totally dedicated as the object of His exclusive enjoyment. Thus, the essential [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") of the soul, as set out in the last decad, gets crystallised still further in this decad.

It deserves to be noted that, enlightened by the Lord about the soul’s grandeur as His vassal, highly delectable to Him, the Āḻvār is mighty jubilant, to the point of being turned into the feminine state (Nāyakī). The Āḻvār, thus transformed, highlights the current mood of the Nāyakī, her total dedication to the Lord as His exclusive vassal in the esoteric sense, adopting the theme as above. In fact, this is the solitary decad in the entire hymnal, where the Nāyakī gives vent to her joy, indirectly though. In all other decads [reflecting](/definition/reflecting#history "show reflecting definitions") the Nāyakī stance, she is in a state of extreme discomfiture due to the immediate non-fulfilment of her particular longing.


