+++
title = "1045 Pasuram 8.10.11"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நல்ல கோட்பாட்டு உலகங்கள் மூன்றினுள்ளும் தான்நிறைந்த  
அல்லிக் கமலக் கண்ணனை அம்தண் குருகூர்ச் சடகோபன்  
சொல்லப் பட்ட ஆயிரத்துள் இவையும் பத்தும் வல்லார்கள்  
நல்ல பதத்தால் மனைவாழ்வர் கொண்ட பெண்டீர் மக்களே. (2)

[nalla](/definition/nalla#history "show nalla definitions") kōṭpāṭṭu ulakaṅkaḷ mūṉṟiṉuḷḷum tāṉniṟainta  
allik kamalak kaṇṇaṉai amtaṇ kurukūrc [caṭakōpaṉ](/definition/catakopan#vaishnavism "show caṭakōpaṉ definitions")  
collap [paṭṭa](/definition/patta#history "show paṭṭa definitions") āyirattuḷ ivaiyum pattum vallārkaḷ  
nalla patattāl maṉaivāḻvar koṇṭa peṇṭīr makkaḷē. (2)

**English translation of verse 8.10.11:**

Those that are well-versed in these songs ten,  
Out of the thousand uttered by [Kurukūr](/definition/kurukur#vaishnavism "show Kurukūr definitions") Caṭakōpaṉ,  
Adoring the Lord with lotus eyes, large and lovely, who pervades  
All the three worlds with wholesome creeds,  
Will as householders flourish, with fervour great,  
To serve unremittingly the Lord’s devotees aright.

**Notes**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") invests all the three worlds with his remarkable fervour to serve the Lord’s devotees, which has become,as it were, a creed with him. This is the wholesome creed with which he invests all the worlds also. As Śrī Nampiḷḷai puts it, the worlds settled down to orderly thinking, good conduct and behaviour, only after the Āḻvār [sang](/definition/sang#history "show sang definitions") this decad ([Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")).

\(ii\) Far from getting vexed with the Āḻvār for his by-passing Him and getting into the domain of ‘[Bhāgavata](/definition/bhagavata#history "show Bhāgavata definitions")-śeṣatva’ (Service to His devotees), the Lord gazes at him in great wonderment, seeing that he [pines](/definition/pine#history "show pines definitions") for this creed of his to trickle down to his futur generations also. In the process, the Lord’s eyes get widened further still, making them even more attractive than before and inviting the Āḻvār to take due note of it and give expression thereto in this end-song.

\(iii\) The benefit accruing to the chanters of this decad, as set out in this end-song, sounds rather queer. To get consigned to the [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") of a [house-holder](/definition/house-holder#history "show house-holder definitions") would seem like getting into some thing the Āḻvār has been abhorring all along, and detests in the very next decad (IX-I). The point to be emphasised here is, however, the merit attaching to ‘Gṛhastāśrama’, life as a virtuous householder, ably supported by members having the common objective of serving the devout with unremitting zeal and sincerity, such as that of Kūrathāḻvāṉ, Aṉaṉtāḻvaṉ and other savants. It is only [family](/definition/family#history "show family definitions") life which does not conform to this ideal, that needs to be condemned and eschewed. In ‘Īṭu’ there is, as usual, a juicy anecdote to reinforce the wholesome aspect of family life. The great [Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions"), Śrī Rāmānuja, set out on a pilgrimage to ‘Aṉaṉtacayaṉam’ (Trivandrum in [Kerala](/definition/kerala#history "show Kerala definitions") State), accompanied by a large number of disciples. On the way, they halted at the residence of Celva [Nampi](/definition/nampi#history "show Nampi definitions"), an ardent devotee of remarkable excellence, (vide also the 11th stanza of [Periyāḻvār](/definition/periyalvar#vaishnavism "show Periyāḻvār definitions")’s Tiruppallāṇṭu) at Tirukkoṭṭiyūr. Although Nampi was out of station, at that time, his equally devoted wife lavishly entertained Śrī Rāmānuja and his huge entourage, overjoyed at the voluntary arrival of so many ‘[Bhāgavatas](/definition/bhagavata#history "show Bhāgavatas definitions")’ (devotees), all at once, an act of grace galore on their part. The household granary which was full of [paddy](/definition/paddy#history "show paddy definitions"), recently harvested, was pounded into rice, *in toto*, with great jubilation and all that rice was consumed by the venerable guests. On Celva Nampi’s return home, he found the granary absolutely empty. Without the slightest disquietude, the perfect hostess, his wife was, she asssured Nampi that their granary in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") should indeed be full. Let it be noted that this is the kind of household that has been vouchsafed by the benign Āḻvār to the chanters of this decad.

Toṇṭaṉūr Nampi, Eccān and a few other great savarts are also said to have dedicated their lives to the service of the devout (Bhāgavatas).


