+++
title = "1077 Pasuram 9.3.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஓராயிரமாய் உலகுஏழ்அளிக்கும்  
பேராயிரம்கொண்டதுஓர் பீடுஉடையன்  
காராயின காளநல்மேனியினன்  
நாரயணன் நங்கள்பிரான்அவனே. (2)

ōrāyiramāy ulakuēḻaḷikkum  
pērāyiramkoṇṭatuōr pīṭuuṭaiyaṉ  
kārāyiṉa kāḷanalmēṉiyiṉaṉ  
nārayaṇaṉ naṅkaḷpirāṉavaṉē. (2)

**English translation of verse 9.3.1:**

Nārāyaṇaṉ is our sole Benefactor Who bears  
A thousand names and the seven worlds succours;  
Indeed, each name of the [cloud](/definition/cloud#history "show cloud definitions")-hued Lord of exquisite form  
Will the functions fulfil of a thousand names.

**Notes:**

\(i\) When it is said that the Supreme Lord bears a thousand names, “Devo nāmasahasravān”, it only means ‘many’ and not literally limited to a bare thousand. When it is said, pointing to a band of valiant warriors of established fame, that each one of them is equivalent to a thousand fighters, we don’t take this figure literally but understand that each one possesses the strength and skill of many. Even so, the Lord bears innumerable names, each of which has the potentiality of several other names and fulfils the multifarious functions of the Lord. Indeed, the holy names of the Lord are most endearing and soothing to a great degree. Koyilāyttāṉ a staunch disciple of Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar had a son, named after the [Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions"), out of love for him. The son, however, passed away, plunging Koyilāyttāṉ in inconsolable grief. [Bemoaning](/definition/bemoaning#history "show Bemoaning definitions") his great loss, he cast himself at the feet of the Ācārya who consoled him thus: “I know your grief is so great, because your son bore my name, which is very dear unto you. Now, I ask you not to grieve any more, for I bear that name and am alive to comfort you”, So saying, the compassionate Ācārya got an image made like himself and handed it to the bereaved disciple, to dwell upon lovingly, as a holy Souvenir.

\(ii\) The Lord’s exquisite Form helps one to see. in Him the aggregate of the excellences denoted by His numerous names and enjoy them, all at once. His Form thus impounds His names like the embankment which contains the flooding waters, preventing their erosive excursions in different directions.


