+++
title = "1085 Pasuram 9.3.9"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

தொழுதுமாமலர் நீர்சுடர்தூபம்கொண்டு  
எழுதும்என்னும்இது மிகைஆதலின்  
பழுதுஇல்தொல்புகழ்ப் பாம்புஅணைப்பள்ளியாய்  
தழுவுமாறுஅறியேன் உனதாள்களே

toḻutumāmalar nīrcuṭartūpamkoṇṭu  
eḻutumeṉṉumitu mikaiātaliṉ  
paḻutuiltolpukaḻp pāmpuaṇaippaḷḷiyāy  
taḻuvumāṟuaṟiyēṉ uṉatāḷkaḷē

**English translation of verse 9.3.9:**

Oh, Lord, resting on [serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show serpent definitions") bed, ‘tis your ancient glory flawless  
That one can worship you with no effort; 1 am at a loss,  
How indeed I can your feet attain, for heavy you deem  
The ritualistic worship with flowers fine, [lamp](/definition/lamp#history "show lamp definitions") and fragrant fumes.

**Notes:**

The Lord refutes the stand taken by the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), in the preceding song, that only [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions") can possibly worship the Lord at Tiruvēṅkaṭam, by pointing out to him that even men of this world do go there and worship. But then, the Āḻvār is quick to realise that the Lord’s tender solicitude for His subjects is such that He deems even the simple service of offering flowers and sacramental water and [burning](/definition/burning#history "show burning definitions") [incense](/definition/incense#history "show incense definitions") before Him, much-too-heavy. This, the Āḻvār points out to the Lord and enquires of Him what service he could render unto Him. The [Vedic](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedic definitions") text, ‘Bhūyiṣṭāṃ te namauktiṃ videma’ is interpreted, by some, as “we will utter, in plenty, the word ‘[namaḥ](/definition/nama#vaishnavism "show namaḥ definitions")’,” meaning that we do not belong to ourselves but exclusively to the Lord. The great [Vaiṣṇava](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇava definitions") preceptors would, however, interpret it, in the light of this particular song, emphasising the Lord’s remarkable tenderness of heart and amazing solicitude for His subjects. Accordingly, the text in question is taken by them to mean: “We will utter the word ‘namaḥ’ which, according to Your extra-liberal standards, is too weighty a submission by us”. The prose order is arranged as “te bhūyiṣṭāṇṭ [nama](/definition/nama#vaishnavism "show nama definitions") uktiṃ videma”, in order to get at this meaning. In fine, the Āḻvār says that it is well nigh impossible to render any service to the Lord, when one meditates on His remarkable tenderness of heart, which makes Him look upon even the simple offerings like flowers and water and burning incense as part of worship, as imposing a heavy burden on Him. This is indeed very true to His time-honoured fame, as One of easy worshippability.


