+++
title = "1090 Pasuram 9.4.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

மையார்கருங்கண்ணி கமல மலர்மேல்  
செய்யாள் திருமார்வினில்சேர் திருமாலே  
வெய்யார்சுடர்ஆழி சுரிசங்கம்ஏந்தும்  
கையா உன்னைக்காணக் கருதும் என்கண்ணே. (2)

maiyārkaruṅkaṇṇi [kamala](/definition/kamala#history "show kamala definitions") malarmēl  
ceyyāḷ tirumārviṉilcēr tirumālē  
veyyārcuṭarāḻi curicaṅkamēntum  
kaiyā uṉṉaikkāṇak karutum eṉkaṇṇē. (2)

**English translation of verse 9.4.1:**

Oh, Lord holding the Conch lovely and the dazzling discus hot.  
Long do my eyes to behold You; on Your winsome chest,  
You bear, oh, Tirumāl, ([Lakṣmī](/definition/lakshmi#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmī definitions")) the lotus-born of complexion red,  
Whose dark eyes are with collyrium neatly dressed.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") longs to behold the grand assembly of the Divine Mother of exquisite charm and the powerful conch and discus on the Lord’s person, the former on His broad chest and the latter in His lovely hands.

\(ii\) *The Divine Consort with coḻlyrium-dressed eyes*:

It is imperative that [Mahā Lakṣmī](/definition/mahalakshmi#vaishnavism "show Mahā Lakṣmī definitions"), the eternal Spouse of the Supreme Lord, the great intercessor between man and God, should always be in Conjunction with the Lord. The Divine Mother’s presence, beside the Lord, is necessary when the subject submits to His protection, so as to make him shed all [fear](/definition/fear#history "show fear definitions") of punishment at the hands of the strict and unrelenting judge and secure His succour, sure and certain, through the Mother’s recommendatory role. If, in the exercise of unbridled independence, the Lord, however, turned a deaf ear to the Mother’s entreaty, the beloved Spouse that she is, she unleashes her irresistible physical charms and casts a bewitching spell on Him; enthralled by her ravishing beauty, He then carries out her dictates, in full. Again, after the subject’s admission to the Lord’s sweet fold, the Mother’s presence is essential, so as to enable the subject to render the coveted service unto the Divine Couple. The enthralling charm of the Mother’s eyes being thus the main source of his sustenance, the Āḻvār naturally dwells on the beauty of Her eyes, right at the beginning of this song (as in the original text). The Mother’s dark eyes have a natural, built-in grace of their own and hardly need any make-up, by way of [dressing](/definition/dressing#history "show dressing definitions") them with collyrium, which is but an auspicious formality, gone through, as a matter-of-course.

\(iii\) *Lakṣmī, the lotus-born of red complexion*: Emerging from the red lotus, the Divine Mother acquires its colour as well—“Padme sthitām [padma](/definition/padma#vaishnavism "show padma definitions") varṇām”, as the Śrī-Sūkta says. The lotus-born Lakṣmī found even the lotus petals, known for their softness, a little too hard for her tender feet and chose to get herself lodged on the Lord’s winsome chest. It is indeed a case of mutual attraction, the Lord succumbing to the Mother’s charms and the latter, in turn, getting intoxicated by the Lord’s exquisite Form. As Nampiḷḷai would put it, the Mother feels drawn to the lovely conch and discus, gracefully held by the Lord, in His hands, even as the Lord is attracted by the lotus flower held by the Mother.

\(iv\) Instead of saying straightaway that he [pines](/definition/pine#history "show pines definitions") for the Lord’s presence in sweet conjunction with the Divine Mother and the lovely [weapons](/definition/weapon#history "show weapons definitions"), the Āḻvār says that his eyes long to behold Him. This is like the hungry [beggar](/definition/beggar#history "show beggar definitions") pleading for the appeasement of his child’s hunger first.


