+++
title = "1115 Introduction to Section 9.6"

+++
In the tenth song of the last decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions")’s declaration that he had joined his Lord in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") and that his physical frame, left behind, would also fall off in a day or two, might make one feel that it marked the end of his stay in this abobe. And yet, the Āḻvār remained inside the hollow of the sacred tamarind [tree](/definition/tree#history "show tree definitions") for quite some time and [sang](/definition/sang#history "show sang definitions") some more of these nectarean hymns. How and what indeed sustained him and kept him on, in this abode? Could it be that the Lord obliged him with His sweet vision and sustained him? No, He did not. It was only the Āḻvār’s vivid, rather, absorbing recollection of the immensity of the Lord’s love during their erstwhile union, experienced by him in VIII-7, that warmed him up. This is how the contemplation, in retrospect, of her uninterrupted and exclusive enjoyment of Lord [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions")’s sweet [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions") and auspicious traits for twelve long years in the Palace at [Ayodhyā](/definition/ayodhya#vaishnavism "show Ayodhyā definitions"), helped to sustain [Sita](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sita definitions"), during her captivity in [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"). Actually, it is the Supreme Lord, Who, as the Internal Controller, induced this kind of reminiscence and the resultant effervescence of love in the Āḻvār and got, out of him, the further songs of this illuminating hymnal.

The illustrious Nampiḷḷai would explain the prolongation of the Āḻvār’s stay in this abode even at this crucial stage, as follows:

\(i\) The Āḻvār having resolved, as it were, to sustain himself by [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") a thousand hymns, as seen from the end-song of each decad, right from the beginning, the Lord is also keen that the Āḻvār keeps it up and helps him indirectly, by not snatching him away earlier;

\(ii\) The Lord’s own eagerness to listen to these thousand songs, in their entirety; and

\(iii\) It is the great good fortune of the ‘Samsārīs’, caught up in the vortex of worldly [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), that the Āḻvār stays on and continues to feed them with these nectarean hymns.

It is evident that the Lord, enshrined in the pilgrim centre, called Tirukkāṭkarai (in [Kerala](/definition/kerala#history "show Kerala definitions")), kindled in the Āḻvār this kind of reminiscence and made him revert to the mental state, as in VIII-7, seeing that this decad lauds the glory and greatness of that Deity.


