+++
title = "1129 Pasuram 9.7.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

எம்கானல் அகம்கழிவாய் இரை தேர்ந்துஇங்கு இனிதுஅமரும்  
செங்கால மடநாராய்! திருமூழிக்களத்து உறையும்  
கொங்குஆர் பூந்துழாய்முடி எம்குடக்கூத்தர்க்கு என்தூதாய்  
நும்கால்கள் என்தலைமேல் கெழுமீரோ நுமரோடே. (2)

emkāṉal akamkaḻivāy irai tērntuiṅku iṉituamarum  
ceṅkāla maṭanārāy! tirumūḻikkaḷattu uṟaiyum  
koṅkuār pūntuḻāymuṭi emkuṭakkūttarkku eṉtūtāy  
numkālkaḷ eṉtalaimēl keḻumīrō numarōṭē. (2)

**English translation of verse 9.7.1:**

Ye, red-legged stork lovely, that loiters in our garden canal,  
In search of [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions"), may you go on an errand  
To my Lord in Tirumūḻikkaḷam, the pot-dancer grand,  
Wearing on His crown honey-studded tuḻaci garland  
And my head bedeck, on your return,  
With your (weary) legs, along with your kin.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [birds](/definition/bird#history "show birds definitions"), ostensibly employed by the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") to convey his message to the Lord at Tirumūḻikkaḷam, symbolise the great preceptors. This has been clearly brought out in this opening song where the Āḻvār wants the birds to place their legs on his head, which, if taken literally, would not make much sense. The invocation is, therefore, to the illustrious [Ācāryas](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācāryas definitions") to shed their grace on the Āḻvār by placing their legs on his head. c.f. [Tiruviruttam](/definition/tiruviruttam#vaishnavism "show Tiruviruttam definitions")—54, where the Āḻvār sought the good offices of the bees to put him on to the impeccable lotus feet of the Lord of the Celestials. It is evident that the bees in question denote none but the competent preceptors, who ensure our attainment of the Lord.

\(ii\) *Our garden Canal*: Possessivity, that is, “My-ness”, sense of ownership should, in general, be eschewed and yet, it is indeed wholesome and welcome, when it is invoked for the benefit of others, and not for one’s own selfish ends. It is the Nāyakī’s garden where the birds lovingly loiter and this link with them helps her to commission them to carry her message to the Lord, by way of making Him aware of her parlous state. The birds are near at hand, in the Nāyakī’s garden, instead of her having to go in search of them; this is indeed a great boon, comparable to Mahāpūrṇar, the preceptor of Śrī Rāmānuja, staying in the latter’s [house](/definition/house#history "show house definitions") and imparting religious instructions.

\(iii\) *Storks with legs, red and lovely*: The storks denote the Ācāryas, as set out in (1) above, and it is but appropriate that their legs, the very haven of the disciple, are alluded to in such endearing terms.


