+++
title = "1154 Introduction to Section 9.9"

+++
Our great preceptors used to call this decad, as the ‘Evening brawl’ and the third decad in the next (tenth) centum, as the ‘Morning squabble’. In the latter decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") enters the vein of the [Gopis](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopis definitions"), the damsels of Virundāvaṉ, who quarrelled with [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") early in the morning when he was about to take the cattle to the pastures for grazing, dissuading him from going to the outlying [fields](/definition/field#history "show fields definitions"), in view of their inability to brook separation from him for a whole day, not to speak of the lurking danger from [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions")’s spies and evil agents. In this decad. the Āḻvār experiences the pangs of separation, undergone by the [Gopīs](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopīs definitions") during those evenings, when Kṛṣṇa was a little late in returning home after tending the grazing cattle, by day. On certain evenings, Kṛṣṇa would return at the head of the cattle, sounding the bugle, while, on other days. He would allow the cattle to go ahead and walk behind them. Well, during those evenings, when Kṛṣṇa did not make His appearance first but chose to walk behind the cattle, even that little prolongation of Kṛṣṇa’s absence upset the Gopīs who suffered the anguish of an age. The Āḻvār is found in this decad. experiencing, singly, the pangs experienced by all of them in the above context.

It is evening when the cool southerly breeze wafts the sweet fragrance of the Jasmine, in full bloom and the lovely Moon is up in the Sky. Then there is the roaring of the sea, the tuneful cooing of the warbling [birds](/definition/bird#history "show birds definitions"), the distant sound of the bugle and a host of other things which make that part of the day highly delectable. But all these normal instruments of happiness affect the frustrated Āḻvār adversely, as he could not gain access to Tirunāvāy, much as he longed for. All these remind him of the Lord, making his separation from Him, all the more poignant. A striking parallel to this can be found in [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") during her captivity in [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"), surrounded by an uncouth band of Rākṣasīs, tormenting and torturing her. What was it she had longed for while following Lord [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") into exile and what was it she got herself landed in? Well, She thought that she could have her Lord all unto herself, without the distractions of the Palace where he would have had to divide his time among so many parents, subjects, ministers and so on. But she found herself in the gruesome predicament of a captive on whom miseries of aḷl kinds were unleashed by those unrelenting [monsters](/definition/monster#history "show monsters definitions"), set upon her by [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions"), their [king](/definition/king#history "show king definitions"). She was even driven to the very edge of the extreme step of strangling herself with her long locks of [hair](/definition/hair#history "show hair definitions").

[Nampi](/definition/nampi#history "show Nampi definitions") Tiruvaraṅka [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions") Tācar, a disciple of Nampiḷḷai attended the latter‘s discourses of [Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions"). One day, Tācar happened to meet Peṟṟi, a disciple of Nañcīyar, the preceptor of Nampiḻḷai. Asked about the particular decad. currently discoursed upon delightfully by Nampiḷḷai, Tācar told Peṟṟi, “Today, the learned lecturer completed the decad commencing with the words ‘Arukkum viṉai’ (9-8); tomorrow we shall listen to the discourse on the next decad, known as the evening brawl.”

When Emperumāṉār (Śrī Rāmānuja) was [studying](/definition/study#history "show studying definitions") this decad under Tirumālai Āṇṭāṉ, the latter said, [Āḷavantār](/definition/alavantar#vaishnavism "show Āḷavantār definitions") used to say that the Āḻvār suffered as much as all the cowherdesses of Virundāvan did suffer in one night, due to Lord Kṛṣṇa’s desertion of them”, “No”, interrupted Emperumāṉār, “Sire, please say that he suffered all those pangs in the space of an evening, as a whole night is too long a period to keep him alive despite the pangs of separation from the Lord”. Indeed, a moment’s absence from God is an age of pangs to the love-lorn Saints; time seems stretched into an eternity and, during such moments, the very objects which cater to one’s pleasures seem to be the instruments of [torture](/definition/torture#history "show torture definitions"), wantonly designed to aggravate their [sufferings](/definition/suffering#history "show sufferings definitions").


