+++
title = "1169 Pasuram 9.10.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கள்அவிழும் மலர்இட்டு நீர்இறைஞ்சுமின்  
நள்ளிசேரும் வயல்சூழ் கிடங்கின்புடை  
வெள்ளிஏய்ந்த மதிள்சூழ் திருக்கண்ணபுரம்  
உள்ளி நாளும்தொழுது எழுமினோ தொண்டரே!

kaḷaviḻum malariṭṭu nīriṟaiñcumiṉ  
naḷḷicērum vayalcūḻ kiṭaṅkiṉpuṭai  
veḷḷiēynta matiḷcūḻ tirukkaṇṇapuram  
uḷḷi nāḷumtoḻutu eḻumiṉō toṇṭarē!

**English translation of verse 9.10.2:**

Ye, devout men, worship the Lord with flowers fine, studded, with honey.  
And [salvation](/definition/salvation#history "show salvation definitions") do attain, lovingly meditating on Tirukkaṇṇapuram daily,  
The holy place enclosed by stately [walls](/definition/wall#history "show walls definitions") reaching the very sky,  
Whose moats the [fields](/definition/field#history "show fields definitions") adjoin where female crabs go gay.

**Notes:**

\(i\) That there is no restriction on the flowers to be used for [worshipping](/definition/worshipping#history "show worshipping definitions") the Lord is brought out by reference, in this song, to honey-studded flowers, in general, and not merely the lotus, as mentioned in the preceding song. All that is needed is that the flowers should be fresh and not dried up. These flowers are only symbolic of the eight varieties of flowers to be employed by the votaries for worship, namely, ‘*Ahiṃsā*’ (non-violence), ‘*[Indriya](/definition/indriya#history "show Indriya definitions") [nigrahaḥ](/definition/nigraha#history "show nigrahaḥ definitions")*’ (control over the Sensory organs), ‘*Sarva [bhūta](/definition/bhuta#history "show bhūta definitions") [dayā](/definition/daya#history "show dayā definitions")*’ (compassion for one and all), ‘*Kṣamā*’ (forgiveness) ‘*[Dhyāna](/definition/dhyana#vaishnavism "show Dhyāna definitions")* [*Dhyānam*]’ ([Meditation](/definition/meditation#history "show Meditation definitions")), ‘*[Tapaḥ](/definition/tapas#vaishnavism "show Tapaḥ definitions")*’ (penance or austerity), ‘*Jnāna* [*Jnānam*]’ (knowledge) and ‘*[Satya](/definition/satya#vaishnavism "show Satya definitions")* [*Satyam*]’ (Truth or veracity).

This is brought out, in the following [śloka](/definition/sloka#vaishnavism "show śloka definitions"):

> “*Ahiṃsā* puṣpam pratamarh > [puṣpaṃ](/definition/pushpa#vaishnavism "show puṣpaṃ definitions"), > puṣpaṃ *Indriya nigrahaḥ, Sarvabhūtadayā* puṣpaṃ, *Kṣamā* puṣpaṃ > viśeṣataḥ, *Dhyānam* puṣpaṃ, *tapaḥ* puṣpaṃ, *Jñānam* puṣpaṃ > tataivaca, *Satyam* aṣṭavidam puṣpaṃ Viṣṇoḥ prītikaraṃ bhaveth”.

\(ii\) Even loving meditation of this holy centre will secure one’s salvation. This could be done all the time, without restriction, unlike the dip in the oceanic waters, which is permissible only on certain specified days.


