+++
title = "1182 Introduction to Section 10.1"

+++
The declaration, made by the Saint in the preceding decad, that the Lord is the great Benefactor Who would grant ‘[Mokṣa](/definition/moksha#vaishnavism "show Mokṣa definitions")’ (eternal emancipation) when this body of ours falls off, is with reference to the clear assurance given to him by the Lord, to this effect. What looked earlier like an indefinite prospect has now acquired a concrete shape, time-bound, the farthest limit being the fall of the body at the end of the current span of [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"). Well, that he was fast nearing the end of his soul’s journey, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") was quite conscious of. His body had worn out to an extent that gave clear indication of its [falling](/definition/falling#history "show falling definitions") off very soon and the Āḻvār knew quite well that the day of his promised ascent to [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") was near at hand. So then, the Āḻvār set about preparing for the final lap of his journey to the Celestium and sought the good offices of the Lord, in His worshippable form at Tirumōkūr, to escort him through. Finding the Lord at Tirumōkūr, as the super-abundant Benefactor, with profound knowledge and prowess, capable of steering through all obstacles, the Āḻvār got hold of Him as the unfailing escort, during his onward march to yonder Heaven.

But then, it might be questioned whether, during the soul’s ascent to Heaven, the Lord’s good offices should be specially requisitioned as above, seeing that the ‘Arcis’ and other functionaries do conduct the Heaven-bound souls and take charge of them at the various stages of the journey, in all their details. The answer to this poser can, however, be found in the Lord’s own declaration in the carama [śloka](/definition/sloka#vaishnavism "show śloka definitions"), delivered during His advent as [Varāha](/definition/varaha#vaishnavism "show Varāha definitions") Nāyaṉār (The Great [Boar](/definition/boar#history "show Boar definitions"))—“Ahaṃ smarāmi Mad [bhaktaṃ](/definition/bhakta#vaishnavism "show bhaktaṃ definitions") *nayāmi* [paramāṃ](/definition/parama#vaishnavism "show paramāṃ definitions") gatim”. The word in italics reveals that the Lord Himself conducts the liberated souls to the highest abode, namely, Heaven. This “[Mārga](/definition/marga#history "show Mārga definitions") [Bandhu](/definition/bandhu#history "show Bandhu definitions")”, the Āḻvār could spot out in the Lord at Tirumōkūr (near [Maturai](/definition/maturai#vaishnavism "show Maturai definitions"), in [Tamil Nāḍu](/definition/tamilnadu#history "show Tamil Nāḍu definitions")) and he, therefore, extols Him, in this decad. Apart from the Lord’s attainments, His bewitching beauty is enough to make the Āḻvār follow Him, [enjoying](/definition/enjoying#history "show enjoying definitions") His exquisite charm, all along.


