+++
title = "1183 Pasuram 10.1.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

தாள தாமரைத் தடம்அணி வயல் திருமோகூர்  
நாளும் மேவி நன்குஅமர்ந்து நின்று அசுரரைத் தகர்க்கும்  
தோளும் நான்குஉடைச் சுரிகுழல் கமலக்கண் கனிவாய்க்  
காள மேகத்தை அன்றி மற்றொன்றுஇலம் கதியே. (2)

[tāḷa](/definition/tala#history "show tāḷa definitions") tāmarait taṭamaṇi vayal tirumōkūr  
nāḷum mēvi naṉkuamarntu niṉṟu acurarait takarkkum  
tōḷum nāṉkuuṭaic curikuḻal kamalakkaṇ kaṉivāyk  
[kāḷa](/definition/kala#vaishnavism "show kāḷa definitions") mēkattai aṉṟi maṟṟoṉṟuilam katiyē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.1.1:**

Escort have we none but the [cloud](/definition/cloud#history "show cloud definitions")-hued Lord,  
With shoulders four that shall the Asuras smite,  
Curly locks, lotus eyes and lips, red and bright,  
Who does for ever dwell with great delight  
In Tirumōkūr with strong-petalled lotus ponds and [rich](/definition/rich#history "show rich definitions") [paddy](/definition/paddy#history "show paddy definitions") [fields](/definition/field#history "show fields definitions").

**Notes:**

\(i\) It is but natural that a person, roasted by gruelling heat, looks for relief through a deep plunge into a cool pond or showers from the sky. The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), about to be rid of the parching heat of [Saṃsāra](/definition/samsara#history "show Saṃsāra definitions"), has likewise got hold of Lord ‘Kāḷamēgam enshrined in Tirumōkūr. This Deity has also been referred to, later in this decad-vide eighth song, as the pond, cool and lovely, yielded by [king](/definition/king#history "show king definitions") [Daśaratha](/definition/dasharatha#vaishnavism "show Daśaratha definitions"), the safe Refuge, rather the one and only Refuge.

\(ii\) The lotus ponds and the paddy fields allude to the great ones, characterised by plain living (lying low, in utter humility, like the paddy [crops](/definition/crop#history "show crops definitions") studded with grains) and high thinking (like the lotus flowers, displayed majestically on the tall stalks sprouting from the watery depths).

\(iii\) The Lord resides in this sportive universe, with greater delight than in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"), because it is here that His auspicious traits of easy accessibility, tender solicitude etc., shine with greater splendour, like unto a [lamp](/definition/lamp#history "show lamp definitions") lit at night, as distinguished from one commissioned in broad day-light.

\(iv\) Even in His Area or Iconic manifestation at Tirumōkūr, the Lord’s sinewy shoulders proclaim the valorous deeds performed by them during His [Avatāras](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāras definitions") (Incarnations), like unto the ear lobes, though not decorated with [earrings](/definition/earring#history "show earrings definitions") at present, telling the tale of their erstwhile decoration.


