+++
title = "1195 Introduction to Section 10.2"

+++
In this decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") lauds the glory of the Lord, in His worshippable form at Tiruvaṉantapuram (in [Kerala](/definition/kerala#history "show Kerala definitions") State). As we go on, we will find the Āḻvār calling successively at the holy centres of Tiruvāṭṭāṟu, Tirumāliruñcōlai, Tiruppēr and adoring the Lord enshrined in those places. A similar treatment is noticeable in the case of Tirumaṅkai Āḻvār also. He is found calling on the Lords of many holy places, all of them in a single decad of the tenth Centum (X-l) of his grand apocalypse (Periya Tirumoḻi). When asked by Nañcīyar to elucidate this visiting spree on the part of that Āḻvār, Bhaṭṭārya brought home the import, in a very telling manner. He said: “Don’t you know, Son, when a girl is given in [marriage](/definition/marriage#history "show marriage definitions"), there comes a time when she has to leave her parental roof for that of her husband and that it is but natural that she then goes about visiting her relations and friends at this end, to take leave of them. So does the Āḻvār, as the time for departing to [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") draws near; on the eve of his departure from this abode, he takes leave of the Lord in His worshippable form, at the various [shrines](/definition/shrine#history "show shrines definitions") over here, who did, as a matter of fact, instil and enrich his love for God in Heaven.”

Having been assured of his ascent to Heaven at the end of the current span of [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), (9-10-5), Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions") quite well knew that the day of his ascent was near at hand. And that is why he has actively embarked on a programme of leave-taking.


