+++
title = "1204 Pasuram 10.2.9"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நாம் உமக்கு அறியச்சொன்ன நாள்களும் நணியஆன  
சேமம் நன்குஉடைத்துக்கண்டீர் செறிபொழில்அனந்தபுரம்  
தூமநல் விரைமலர்கள் துவள்அற ஆய்ந்துகொண்டு  
வாமனன் அடிக்குஎன்று ஏத்த மாய்ந்துஅறும் வினைகள்தாமே.

nām umakku aṟiyaccoṉṉa nāḷkaḷum naṇiyaāṉa  
cēmam naṉkuuṭaittukkaṇṭīr ceṟipoḻilaṉantapuram  
tūmanal viraimalarkaḷ tuvaḷaṟa āyntukoṇṭu  
vāmaṉaṉ aṭikkueṉṟu ētta māyntuaṟum viṉaikaḷtāmē.

**English translation of verse 10.2.9:**

The days, I spoke to you about, are drawing near,  
Here’s [Aṉantapuram](/definition/anantapuram#vaishnavism "show Aṉantapuram definitions"), You see, with orchards fine, our haven safe,  
Do go there with choice flowers and [incense](/definition/incense#history "show incense definitions") pure  
For Lord [Vāmana](/definition/vamana#history "show Vāmana definitions")’s worship and meditate; Your sins will fall off  
By themselves, I am quite sure.

**Notes:**

The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") has already stated, vide IX-10-5, that he will reach the [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"), the destined Land, at the end of the current span of [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), as vouchsafed to him by the Lord at Tirukkaṇṇapuram. He now reverts to that and says that the crucial day of his departure from this world is drawing near and invites the worldlings to listen to his advice and prosper. Once he departs from this world, who else is there to tender such wholesome advice and even if there be yet another, who will listen to him? This is precisely how Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") advised Yudhiṣṭira to go and receive instructions in the intricacies of morality and ethical values, at the feet of Bhīṣmācār, who lay on his [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions")-bed made up of [arrows](/definition/arrow#history "show arrows definitions"), awaiting the dawn of [Uttarāyaṇa](/definition/uttarayana#history "show Uttarāyaṇa definitions") for giving up his mortal coil.

Lord Kṛṣṇa, though an [Avatāra](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāra definitions") Himself, exhorted Yudhiṣṭira to learn all truths from Bhīsma. The Lord is Truth itself and yet. He would go unheard by the commonalty; at any rate, He may not be heard as well as they listen to the Truth-seers (Tatva Darśīs). That is why He told [Arjuna](/definition/arjuna#vaishnavism "show Arjuna definitions"), vide [Bhagavad Gītā](/definition/bhagavad-gita#vaishnavism "show Bhagavad Gītā definitions"), IV-34, “By prostrations, by fair questioning and by reverential service to Truth-seeing Saints, learn, for they shall teach you wisdom”. As a matter of fact, all spiritual [teaching](/definition/teaching#history "show teaching definitions") has value only when it proceeds from recognised authority. One Pariñai Appar used to quote [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar’s [observation](/definition/observation#history "show observation definitions") in this regard, as follows: “Unless the custodian of an article is a person of worth, the article loses value, both in the hands of the giver and the taker.”


