+++
title = "1229 Pasuram 10.4.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஆழியான் ஆழி அமரர்க்கும் அப்பாலான்  
ஊழியான் ஊழி படைத்தான் நிரைமேய்த்தான்  
பாழிஅம் தோளால் வரைஎடுத்தான் பாதங்கள்  
வாழி என்நெஞ்சே! மறவாது வாழ்கண்டாய்.

āḻiyāṉ āḻi amararkkum appālāṉ  
ūḻiyāṉ ūḻi paṭaittāṉ niraimēyttāṉ  
pāḻiam tōḷāl varaieṭuttāṉ pātaṅkaḷ  
[vāḻi](/definition/vali#vaishnavism "show vāḻi definitions") eṉneñcē! maṟavātu vāḻkaṇṭāy.

**English translation of verse 10.4.8:**

Inaccessible is my Lord, Who holds the discus on,  
Even to the exalted Celestials; He stayed all alone  
During the [deluge](/definition/deluge#history "show deluge definitions") great, Time and all else He did ordain,  
Cows He did tend and save by lifting mount (Govardhan)  
On His shoulder, fit and fine; may you, my mind, prosper,  
Adoring without fail His lovely feet for ever,  
Let me hail indeed this state of affairs.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions")’s mind having responded well to his exhortation, in the preceding song, he now pats on its back and calls upon it to adore the Lord’s feet without intermission. After all the exertion put forth for achieving the end in view, it is usual for people to relax and rest on their oars, once the destination is reached. It is precisely this common failing that the Āḻvār wants his mind to guard against. He advises it to persevere in its adoration of the Lord’s lovely feet, with no break whatever.

\(ii\) He, who created myriads of things, incarnated as [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") in the shepherd clan, palmed off as [Nanda](/definition/nanda#history "show Nanda definitions")’s son, as if He too was created like others. His tending the cows has indeed a special significance. Unable to tend themselves, the cows, as a class, would not resist the Lord’s aid and strike a divergent path, as we folks do. Verily, this is the essence of ‘Prapaṭti’ or surrender to the Lord’s grace—“Bhagavad pravṛtti [virodhi](/definition/virodhin#vaishnavism "show virodhi definitions") svapravṛtti nivṛtti-prapatti”.


