+++
title = "1252 Pasuram 10.6.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வான்ஏற வழிதந்த வாட்டாற்றான் பணிவகையே  
நான்ஏறப் பெறுகின்றேன் நரகத்தை நகுநெஞ்சே  
தேன்ஏறு மலர்த்துளவம் திகழ்பாதன் செழும்பறவை-  
தான்ஏறித் திரிவான தாள்இணை என்தலைமேலே

vāṉēṟa vaḻitanta vāṭṭāṟṟāṉ paṇivakaiyē  
nāṉēṟap peṟukiṉṟēṉ narakattai nakuneñcē  
tēṉēṟu malarttuḷavam tikaḻpātaṉ ceḻumpaṟavai-  
tāṉēṟit tirivāṉa tāḷiṇai eṉtalaimēlē

**English translation of verse 10.6.5:**

I am on my heavenly ascent and the Lord enshrined  
In Tiruvāṭṭaṟu is here to guide me *en route*, as of yore ordained,  
Laugh down, my mind, the world that hitherto kept you bound;  
Implanted on my head are the feet, well adorned  
By the honey-studded tuḻaci flower, of the Lord,  
Who roams about on His lovely mount, the [Garuḍa](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍa definitions").

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") is indeed very jubilant over the immediate prospect of his ascent to [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") through that exalted and exhilarating route, known as ‘Arcirādi [mārga](/definition/marga#history "show mārga definitions") He sees in the Lord at Tiruvāṭṭāṟu, his keen escort, on his Heaven-bound journey. As a matter of fact, the Āḻvār has still not got off the ground and yet, so sanguine is he of his ascent to Heaven that he feels that he is already well on the way.

\(ii\) The Āḻvār points out to his mind that the Lord has placed His good offices at his disposal, during his ensuing journey through the stellar route, true to His assurance of yore, ‘Mokṣayiṣyāmi Māśucaḥ’ ([Bhagavad Gītā](/definition/bhagavad-gita#vaishnavism "show Bhagavad Gītā definitions") XVIII.66). The mind wishes to know what precisely the Āḻvār expects of it, at this crucial juncture and the Āḻvār wants it to scornfully laugh at the hellish existence he had hitherto eked out, wallowing in the stye of worldly [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), miserably bound down to home and hearth. The original text of this song specifically says that the Āḻvār called upon his mind to laugh at ‘[hell](/definition/hell#history "show hell definitions")’ but it need not be literally taken so, as life over here, entailing the ungodly pursuit, the scramble for [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions") and raiment, is just as bad as hell. It is a disdainful laughter of dissociation from ‘[Saṃsāra](/definition/samsara#history "show Saṃsāra definitions") which had kept the Āḻvār in its unrelenting grip, for ages. Piḷḷai Aḻakiya Maṇavāḷa Perumāḷ Araiyar, who was confined to sick-bed for quite some length of time, received one day the [temple](/definition/temple#history "show temple definitions") honours, the garland worn by Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions") and the head-gear, sent to his residence, signifying the Lord’s benedictive send-off of the ailing devotee to Heaven. Thereupon, the savant recited this song and called upon his mind to laugh down his malady.

But then, it might be asked whether the Āḻvār should not have done all this jeering at ‘Saṃsāra’, his erstwhile comrade of ages, from the yonder side of Heaven, instead of doing it, while he is still in this land. Well, the Āḻvār has not the slightest [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions") about his impending ascent to Heaven and actually, he has before him the glorious vision of the Lord sporting the honey-studded tuḻaci garlands, mounted on Garuḍa. The Āḻvār is indeed amazed at that he bears on his head the feet of the Lord, although He is mounted aloft, on Garuḍa’s hefty back.


