+++
title = "1257 Pasuram 10.6.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

பிரியாதுஆட் செய்என்று பிறப்புஅறுத்து ஆள் அறக்கொண்டான்  
அரியாகி இரணியனை ஆகம்கீண்டான் அன்று  
பெரியார்க்கு ஆட்பட்டக்கால் பெறாதபயன் பெறுமாறு  
வரிவாள் வாய்அரவுஅணைமேல் வாட்டாற்றான் காட்டினனே.

piriyātuāṭ ceyeṉṟu piṟappuaṟuttu āḷ aṟakkoṇṭāṉ  
ariyāki iraṇiyaṉai ākamkīṇṭāṉ aṉṟu  
periyārkku āṭpaṭṭakkāl peṟātapayaṉ peṟumāṟu  
varivāḷ vāyaravuaṇaimēl vāṭṭāṟṟāṉ kāṭṭiṉaṉē.

**English translation of verse 10.6.10:**

Blest am I with unremitting service unto the Lord,  
Cut out from worldly [bondage](/definition/bondage#history "show bondage definitions"); my Sire who tore to shreds  
Iraṇiyaṉ’s body as Ari of yore and does on [serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show serpent definitions")-bed  
Now relax at Tiruvāṭṭāṟu, has indeed demonstrated  
That by His sweet grace do accrue unattainable gains  
Unto those that remain as vassals of the great ones.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions")’s great gains, far exceeding even the dreamiest of his expectations are: The Lord’s own utterance from His coral lips, inviting the Āḻvār to render unto Him unremitting service in close proximity and actually taking service from him; He has also halted the dreadful cycle of [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") and [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions"). Gains of this magnitude cannot be secured by one’s own efforts, however long and strenuous and only the Lord’s spontaneous grace, totally unrelated to one’s merit, can shower such immense benefits which the text of the song, as in the original, terms as the *attainment of unattainable gains*. And now, the Āḻvār even goes to the length of bringing within the purview cf this special category of gains, each one of the Lord’s past incarnations, as Ari [Naraśiṅga (Man-[Lion](/definition/lion#history "show Lion definitions")) etc.] as if they were all directed towards salving the Āḻvār and catering to his exclusive enjoyment.

\(ii\) It has been clearly elucidated in the episode of Kṣatrabandhu, occurring in ‘Viṣṇudharma’, how those blest by the ‘[Mahātmās](/definition/mahatman#vaishnavism "show Mahātmās definitions")’, the great ones, are doled out [rich](/definition/rich#history "show rich definitions") benefits of rare magnitude. These mighty donors are not weighed down by considerations of either the pettiness of their recipients or the greatness of the benefits granted to them. In other words, these great souls do not shrink back and withhold their bounty, looking at the rich, intrinsic value of their gifts vis-a-vis the poor stature of the donees. As a matter of fact, even [Prahlāda](/definition/prahlada#vaishnavism "show Prahlāda definitions") did not enjoy the proud privilege, conferred by the Lord on the Āḻvār, of [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") ‘[Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")’. Little wonder then, the Āḻvār deems it an unattainable gain attained by him, a rare piece of service, graciously assigned to him by the Lord.


