+++
title = "1264 Pasuram 10.7.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

என்கொல் அம்மான் திருஅருள்கள்? உலகும் உயிரும் தானேயாய்  
நன்கு என் உடலம் கைவிடான் ஞாலத்தூடே நடந்து உழக்கி  
தென் கொள் திசைக்குத் திலதமாய் நின்ற திருமாலிருஞ்சோலை  
நங்கள் குன்றம் கைவிடான் நண்ணா அசுரர் நலியவே.

eṉkol ammāṉ tiruaruḷkaḷ? ulakum uyirum tāṉēyāy  
naṉku eṉ uṭalam kaiviṭāṉ ñālattūṭē naṭantu uḻakki  
teṉ koḷ ticaikkut tilatamāy niṉṟa tirumāliruñcōlai  
naṅkaḷ kuṉṟam kaiviṭāṉ naṇṇā acurar naliyavē.

**English translation of verse 10.7.4:**

What indeed is the extent of my Sire’s lovely grace!  
Unto my body He holds on with love supreme and the sacred Mount,  
Tirumāliruñ Cōlai He sticks to likewise, the crest [jewel](/definition/jewel#history "show jewel definitions") of the South,  
The Soul Supreme of all things and beings, He did traverse  
The whole Earth so as to crush the ungodly Asuras.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The text of the song, in original, refers to the Lord’s peregrination on Earth but the inner meaning thereof seems to be that, under the pretext of spanning the entire universe as [Trivikrama](/definition/trivikrama#vaishnavism "show Trivikrama definitions"), the Lord was actually in search of a favourite spot where He could hold uninterrupted rapport with the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") and enjoy him to His heart’s fill. Tirumāliruñcōlai was the beauty spot, thus chosen by the Lord and it is there that the Lord lavished His a ections on the Āḻvār. The Lord’s love of that place stems from the realisation of the fact that it is there that He could enjoy the Āḻvār, in the manner He did. In other words, the Lord thoroughly enjoyed the Āḻvār, body and Soul and Mount Tirumāliruñcōlai also, as the breeding ground of the Lord’s enjoyment of the Āḻvār. Incidentally, this special felicity of the Lord floored the hostile Asuras down, with envy.

\(ii\) The Sovereign Lord, above wants of any kind, is so madly in love with the Āḻvār and hankers after his material body, like unto a wayward prince lavishing his affections on a low-caste woman, literally bound to her feet. The Āḻvār euphemistically refers to the Lord’s bewilderment, as His grace, instead of curtly naming it as delusion or mental aberration.

\(iii\) As already elucidated in X-4-4, the Lord’s stay in the pilgrim centres is not an end in itself but only the means for the reclamation of His subjects, His ultimate destination being the heart-centre of the spiritually regenerated subjects.

\(iv\) *[Crushing](/definition/crushing#history "show Crushing definitions") the ungodly Asuras*: This is interpreted in two ways:

(*a*) The Asuras, who prattle heresies, that is, go about shouting that the Lord is devoid of form and attributes, dwindle down with [shame](/definition/shame#history "show shame definitions") the moment they see the Lord in His worshippable Form in Tirumāliruñcōlai, in all His splendour.

(*b*) Those, that hitherto belittled the greatness of Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions"), in terms of his parentage and all that, also shrink down with shame, when they see the Lord’s profusion of love for the Āḻvār.


