+++
title = "1271 Pasuram 10.7.11"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

மான்ஆங்காரம் மனம்கெட ஐவர் வன்கையர் மங்க  
தான்ஆங்கார மாய்ப்புக்கு தானே தானே ஆனானைத்  
தேனாங் காரப் பொழில்குருகூர்ச் சடகோபன் சொல்ஆயிரத்துள்  
மான்ஆங்காரத்துஇவை பத்தும் திருமாலிருஞ் சோலைமலைக்கே. (2)

māṉāṅkāram maṉamkeṭa aivar vaṉkaiyar maṅka  
tāṉāṅkāra māyppukku tāṉē tāṉē āṉāṉait  
tēṉāṅ kārap poḻilkurukūrc [caṭakōpaṉ](/definition/catakopan#vaishnavism "show caṭakōpaṉ definitions") colāyirattuḷ  
māṉāṅkārattuivai pattum tirumāliruñ cōlaimalaikkē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.7.11:**

These songs ten, out of the thousand composed by Caṭakōpaṉ  
Of [Kurukūr](/definition/kurukur#vaishnavism "show Kurukūr definitions"), abounding in orchards lovely, which mention  
How the Lord did his body and soul lovingly enter,  
Become one with him and did his material contacts sever,  
Do unto Mount Tirumāliruñcōlai pertain.

**Notes:**

That this decad pertains to the holy centre of Tirumāliruñcōlai is evident from every song in this decad. The special significance of this fact being mentioned in this end-song can, however, be appreciated in two ways, as indicated below:

\(i\) In 11-10, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") had referred to this holy centre, abounding in orchards, young and gay, as one of bewildering charm. The [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") of the soil is such that even [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions"), endowed with knowledge, clear and perfect, by no less than the Omniscient Lord Himself, was thrown off his feet by the exquisite charm of Lord Aḻakar, enshrined in this centre and he entertained [doubts](/definition/doubt#history "show doubts definitions") whether the Lord’s glowing crown was but the upward expansion of His facial glow and the lotus [seat](/definition/seat#history "show seat definitions") on which He appeared to be standing was but the reflection of His dazzling feet and so on. And now, it is but the corrupting influence of that very soil that made the Lord hanker after the physical body of the Āḻvār with fantastic fascination.

\(ii\) Again, it Was due to the Lord's contact with this particular soil, that He could overcome His fascination for the Āḻvār’s material frame. The object underlying the Lord’s manifestation on this soil, in His worshippable Form as Aḻakar, is to highlight His creed of subserving His devotees. It was in pursuance of this creed that He yielded to the Āḻvār’s advice, not to caress his body any longer.

The benefit, accrued to the chanters of this decad, could be taken as the severance of the material contact with their bodies, comprising the twenty-four principles, enumerated in the tenth song, as the Āḻvār prays unto the Lord, in this decad, for such severance.


