+++
title = "1276 Pasuram 10.8.3"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

பிடித்தேன் பிறவி கெடுத்தேன் பிணிசாரேன்  
மடித்தேன் மனைவாழ்க்கையுள் நிற்பதுஓர் மாயையை  
கொடிக் கோபுரமாடங்கள்சூழ் திருப்பேரான்  
அடிச்சேர்வது எனக்கு எளிதுஆயின வாறே.

piṭittēṉ piṟavi keṭuttēṉ piṇicārēṉ  
maṭittēṉ maṉaivāḻkkaiyuḷ niṟpatuōr māyaiyai  
koṭik kōpuramāṭaṅkaḷcūḻ tiruppērāṉ  
aṭiccērvatu eṉakku eḷituāyiṉa vāṟē.

**English translation of verse 10.8.3:**

How easily could I my Lord attain, Who dwells  
In Tiruppēr, enclosed by towers with banners aloft and castles tall!  
Firm indeed is my grip of His feet which cut out pestilence,  
My cycle of [births](/definition/birth#history "show births definitions") and that elusive trap, the dark nescience.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") keeps musing over the manner in which the Lord has come and mingled with him, out of His spontaneous grace and wonders how the Lord became so easily accessible to him. Having got hold of the Lord’s feet, he is determined not to relax his grip over them hereafter. The benefits flowing from his attainment of the Lord’s feet are: (1) the dreadful cycle of [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") and [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions"), perpetuating his [bondage](/definition/bondage#history "show bondage definitions"), has ground to a halt; (2) with the cessation of birth, pestilence, its by-product, has also been wiped out and (3) severance of his age-long association with [Māyā](/definition/maya#vaishnavism "show Māyā definitions"), the Primordial matter, which brings on the changes of state and the chain of miseries incidental thereto, keeping its victims earth-bound and sense-buried.

\(ii\) An anecdote cited, in this contest, in Īṭu Commentary, is reproduced below:

Saint Rāmānuja was having a stroll in the verandah of the mutt, just after a meal, as a constitutional exercise, but abruptly recanted without proceeding further on, as usual. This was because he was reciting this particular decad and as he dwelt on the [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") of this song, referring to the Āḻvār’s severance of his age-long association with ‘Māyā’ which had kept him in bondage from time immemorial, the Saint also abruptly stopped strolling on and entered the hall. Empār, the enlightened disciple, who was watching this through the small opening in the door of the hall, kept [ajar](/definition/ajar#history "show ajar definitions"), instantly sized up the situation and enquired whether the Saint was reciting, just then, this particular line and the latter affirmed it.


