+++
title = "1278 Pasuram 10.8.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வானே தருவான் எனக்காய் என்னோடுஒட்டி  
ஊன்ஏய் குரம்பை இதனுள் புகுந்து இன்று-  
தானே தடுமாற்ற வினைகள் தவிர்த்தான்  
தேனேய் பொழில் தென்திருப்பேர் நகரானே.

vāṉē taruvāṉ eṉakkāy eṉṉōṭuoṭṭi  
ūṉēy kurampai itaṉuḷ pukuntu iṉṟu-  
tāṉē taṭumāṟṟa viṉaikaḷ tavirttāṉ  
tēṉēy poḻil teṉtiruppēr nakarāṉē.

**English translation of verse 10.8.5:**

The Lord dwelling in Tiṛuppēr city, with orchards fine,  
Where honey bees hum gaily, is intent on putting me in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions");  
Pledged, as it were, He has unto me come, on His own  
And, [entering](/definition/entering#history "show entering definitions") this fleshy body of mine,  
Rid me of all impediments, the fruits of my past actions.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") exclaims that the Lord, enshrined in Tiruppēr, not only took a vow that He would take him to Heaven but also rid him of all impediments, the ‘[Puṇya](/definition/puṇya#vaishnavism "show Puṇya definitions")’ and ‘[Pāpa](/definition/papa#vaishnavism "show Pāpa definitions")’, merit and demerit respectively, the fruits of his actions, good and bad. As a matter of fact, the Lord has, all along, been very keen on taking the Āḻvār to Heaven but nevertheless kept him on, in this abode, only to get all these hymns, sung by him for the edification and enjoyment of the devotees over here. Now that this purpose of the Lord has been achieved, the Āḻvār is on the very verge of his ascent.

\(ii\) The Lord’s ardent fervour in taking the Āḻvār to Heaven is admirably elucidated here. He has taken a vow to grant the Āḻvār, the high Heaven, failing which He would forfeit His commanding position as the Lord of Heaven. This is indeed comparable with the solemn pledges the Lord had made during His incarnation as [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions"), once in regard to His crossing over to [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"), through the sea, along with His army, and again, during His encounter with [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions"). The first oath was: “[Adhya](/definition/adhya#history "show Adhya definitions") me maraṇam [vāpi](/definition/vapi#history "show vāpi definitions") tharaṇam Sāgarasya vā” (either I get across the ocean or give up my [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions")); the second one was: ‘Arāvaṇamarāmaṃ vā’ (either Rāvaṇa or Rāma shall cease to be).

\(iii\) No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), the Lord was intent upon taking the Āḻvār bodily to Heaven but He had to yield to the Āḻvār’s persistent demand to give up the idea. The next best He could do was to delve, with great delight, into the foul, fleshy body of the Āḻvār and cut out, *suo moto* (of His own accord) the ills and evils, separating the Aḻvār from Him. ‘puṇya’ (merit, accrued by dint of one’s good deeds) is but a [gold](/definition/gold#history "show gold definitions") fetter while ‘Pāpa’ (sin or demerit devolving from bad deeds) is an iron fetter. A gold fetter is a fetter, all the same, and thus it is as much an impediment as the iron fetter, which sin is.


