+++
title = "1283 Pasuram 10.8.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

உற்றேன் உகந்து பணிசெய்து உன்பாதம்-  
பெற்றேன் ஈதே இன்னம் வேண்டுவது எந்தாய்  
கற்றார் மறைவாணர்கள்சூழ் திருப்பேராற்கு  
அற்றார் அடியார் தமக்கு அல்லல் நில்லாவே. (2)

uṟṟēṉ ukantu paṇiceytu uṉpātam-  
peṟṟēṉ ītē iṉṉam vēṇṭuvatu entāy  
kaṟṟār maṟaivāṇarkaḷcūḻ tiruppērāṟku  
aṟṟār aṭiyār tamakku allal nillāvē. (2)

**English translation of verse 10.8.10:**

My Sire, Your lovely feet have I attained and rendered  
Loving service unto You, [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") these songs; what’s now desired  
Is but the extension of this bliss; the learned ones, well-versed  
In the [Vedic](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedic definitions") lore, solely devoted to you, my Lord,  
In Tiruppēr enshrined, will from grief for ever be freed.

**Notes:**

\(i\) After keeping quiet for a while, without furnishing any reply to the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions")’s query as in the last song, the Lord enquired of the Āḻvār what more he needed. The Āḻvār’s reply is, as above. Having been assigned the blissful service of singing this great hymnal ([Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")) there is indeed no greater felicity he could aspire. Immensely pleased with this reply, the Lord nodded His head with joy. Thereupon, the Āḻvār extolled the learned residents of Tiruppēr, rendering devoted service at the feet of the Lord enshrined there, as men well beyond the grip of grief.

\(ii\) It seems necessary, in this context, to clear the possible misconception that, by redeeming the Āḻvār, on His own, without any merit in him, the Lord laid Himself open to the charge of partiality, leading to invidious distinction, shaking the very foundation of the [Śāstras](/definition/shastra#vaishnavism "show Śāstras definitions") and thus paving the way for emancipation of the worldlings, *en masse*, (Sarva [mukti](/definition/mukti#vaishnavism "show mukti definitions")). That the Lord is above blame will be seen straightway, if due note is taken of the fact that the Lord can do precious little to those who strike a divergent path and move away from Him, all the time. It is only when the human heart sparkles with God-love, that the Lord’s advance towards man will make sense. Even so, the mere fact that one is God-bent, by virtue of the inherent [nature](/definition/nature#history "show nature definitions") of the Soul, endowed with intelligence, cannot impart to this attitude the stature of the ‘means’ for attaining Him, and in fact, there is no ‘means’ worth the name, comparable with the ‘end’ attained. It is a thousand pities that clarity is a far cry with quite a few people who stick to their guns with miserable obstinacy, always wanting to adduce some reason or the other, however negligible, smacking of personal effort for compelling the Lord’s grace, depriving it of the element of sweet spontaniety.


