+++
title = "1286 Introduction to Section 10.9"

+++
In the last decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") had put the Lord, a very inconvenient question and thereby put Him in quite an embarrassing predicament. Shorn of all quibblings, the Lord would have had to say, in reply, that it was in the exercise of His unbridled independence that He had kept the Āḻvār, deep down in the mire of [Saṃsāra](/definition/samsara#history "show Saṃsāra definitions") for ages, and now, invoking the self-same trait of His, He has been pleased to extend all the favours, currently enjoyed by the Āḻvār. It would, however, be hardly appropriate for Him to say so, especially at this crucial juncture. For Him, it was now a veritable battle of wits and He skilfully tried to tide over this unenviable situation, rather, cover it up by calling upon the [clouds](/definition/cloud#history "show clouds definitions") and the oceans to roar like an orchestra, heralding the Āḻvār’s ascent to [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") and the inhabitants of all the seven islands to bestow on him their choicest offerings. This is how the errant priest, officiating at [marriage](/definition/marriage#history "show marriage definitions") ceremonies, covers up his inadvertent mistakes in regard to the recital of the [Mantras](/definition/mantra#vaishnavism "show Mantras definitions"), that is, mixing up the wrong texts pertaining to the funeral [obsequies](/definition/obsequies#history "show obsequies definitions"), in between. On such occasions, which might, of course, be few and far between, the clever priest covers his awkwardness by vociferously commanding the piper and the drummer to play their notes in a crescendo, thereby [drowning](/definition/drowning#history "show drowning definitions") his egregious blunder in that babel.

The sweet [music](/definition/music#history "show music definitions") and the fanfare of trumpets etc., from the land of the [Kinnaras](/definition/kinnara#vaishnavism "show Kinnaras definitions"), the [Gandharvas](/definition/gandharvas#vaishnavism "show Gandharvas definitions") and the [Garuḍas](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍas definitions") in the upper regions, hailing the Āḻvār’s ascent to Heaven, are made to fall on the ears of the Āḻvār; the chanks and bugles sound all over, beautiful damsels with spear-shaped eyes sing in chorus the Āḻvār’s glory and the ‘Maruth [Gaṇas](/definition/gana#history "show Gaṇas definitions")’ and the ‘[Aṣṭa](/definition/ashta#history "show Aṣṭa definitions") [Vasus](/definition/vasu#vaishnavism "show Vasus definitions")’ keep chanting the ‘Stotras’, the laudatory hymns continually. The upward journey of the Āḻvār to Heaven through the famous “Arcirādi [Mārga](/definition/marga#history "show Mārga definitions")”, the propitiation of the Āḻvār by the Angels, *en route*, the Āḻvār’s entry into Heaven and the grand ovation accorded to him by the denizens on the yonder side, his access to the gem-set hall where Lord [Mahāviṣṇu](/definition/mahavishnu#vaishnavism "show Mahāviṣṇu definitions") holds His ceremonial Durbar, duly conducted by the guides nominated for the purpose, and attainment of the Lord’s lotus feet—the whole panorama is brought by the Lord within the Āḻvār’s mental comprehension. The Āḻvār voices forth his experience, in this decad, in an esoteric manner, making it appear that the devotees of the Supreme Lord Śrīman [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions"), Who ascended Heaven through this exalted route exclusively earmarked for them, were greeted all along the route and received with special honours by the denizens of the upper regions, showering praises on the new-comers, so on and so forth. It could also be deduced that the Āḻvār thereby intended to infuse confidence in the Śrī [Vaiṣṇavas](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇavas definitions"), the ardent devotees of Lord [Mahā-Viṣṇu](/definition/mahavishnu#vaishnavism "show Mahā-Viṣṇu definitions"), that they too shall surely attain the bliss, currently experienced by the Āḻvār.


