+++
title = "1294 Pasuram 10.9.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

குடிஅடியார் இவர் கோவிந்தன் தனக்குஎன்று  
முடிஉடை வானவர் முறைமுறை எதிர்கொள்ள  
கொடிஅணி நெடுமதிள் கோபுரம் குறுகினர்  
வடிவுஉடை மாதவன் வைகுந்தம் புகவே.

kuṭiaṭiyār ivar kōvintaṉ taṉakkueṉṟu  
muṭiuṭai vāṉavar muṟaimuṟai etirkoḷḷa  
koṭiaṇi neṭumatiḷ kōpuram kuṟukiṉar  
vaṭivuuṭai mātavaṉ [vaikuntam](/definition/vaikuntam#vaishnavism "show vaikuntam definitions") pukavē.

**English translation of verse 10.9.8:**

The crowned denizens of [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") spared no [pains](/definition/pain#history "show pains definitions")  
And came forward to welcome these devotees, from generations,  
Of Lord Kōvintaṉ, when they did the main entrance gain  
Of ‘Vaikuntam the abode of Mātavaṉ of form exquisite,  
Bound by stately [walls](/definition/wall#history "show walls definitions") which lovely banners decorate.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The ‘[Nityas](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nityas definitions")’, in Heaven, now come forward, in their strength, to greet the devotees from Earth, of Lord [Govinda](/definition/govinda#vaishnavism "show Govinda definitions"), who were enthralled by His amazing simplicity and loving condescension, during His advent on Earth. The venue where the two groups meet is just outside the main entrance to Heaven (Śrī Vaikuṇṭa). It may be noted that, while the previous song reflected the Lord’s glory in His ‘[Arcā](/definition/arca#history "show Arcā definitions")’ (iconic) manifestation, this song highlights the Lord’s trait of amazing simplicity, freely exhibited by Him during His ‘[Vibhava](/definition/vibhava#vaishnavism "show Vibhava definitions")’ (incarnate) state on Earth, the only place where this great trait of His could shine most.

\(ii\) The Lord (Śrīman [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions")), ‘Nityas’ (Eternal Heroes) and ‘[Muktas](/definition/mukta#vaishnavism "show Muktas definitions")’ (Released Souls) are all decorated with crowns. But there is a difference; the Lord’s crown betokens His sovereignty, His role as the Protector of one and all, while the crowns of others are their badges of śeṣatva ([servant](/definition/servant#history "show servant definitions")-hood) or dedicated service unto the Lord.

\(iii\) The Heaven wears a festive look, with [festoons](/definition/festoon#history "show festoons definitions") and banners, hung across and lovely [wall](/definition/wall#history "show wall definitions")-decorations. Even the exceedingly charming Lord and the Divine Mother shine with special lustre, at the sight of these spiritually regenerated souls, reclaimed at long last. It is said that, when [Vasudeva](/definition/vasudeva#vaishnavism "show Vasudeva definitions") and [Devakī](/definition/devaki#vaishnavism "show Devakī definitions") saw [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") after [Kaṃsa](/definition/kamsa#vaishnavism "show Kaṃsa definitions") was slain, they looked years younger, overwhelmed with joy. [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions") [Daśaratha](/definition/dasharatha#vaishnavism "show Daśaratha definitions") felt rejuvenated whenever he saw or thought of [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions"). Actually, the king gave expression to this sentiment, in the course of his lusty pleadings with the unrelenting Kaikeyi not to insist upon Rāma being sent into exile. ([Vālmīki](/definition/valmiki#vaishnavism "show Vālmīki definitions") [Rāmāyaṇa](/definition/ramayana#vaishnavism "show Rāmāyaṇa definitions") 11.12.103).


