+++
title = "1295 Pasuram 10.9.9"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வைகுந்தம் புகுதலும் வாசலில் வானவர்  
வைகுந்தன் தமர்எமர் எமதுஇடம் புகுதஎன்று  
வைகுந்தத்து அமரரும் முனிவரும் வியந்தனர்  
வைகுந்தம் புகுவது மண்ணவர் விதியே.

[vaikuntam](/definition/vaikuntam#vaishnavism "show vaikuntam definitions") pukutalum vācalil vāṉavar  
vaikuntaṉ tamaremar ematuiṭam pukutaeṉṟu  
vaikuntattu amararum muṉivarum viyantaṉar  
vaikuntam pukuvatu maṇṇavar vitiyē.

**English translation of verse 10.9.9:**

The eternal angels did in front of the gates of [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") wait  
And with joy immense greeted these marchers great,  
Saying unto them, “May you, our masters, devotees of the Lord  
Of Vaikunta take over our duties and our positions hold”;  
The Celestials, in the perpetual service of the Lord engaged.  
And the sages, in [meditation](/definition/meditation#history "show meditation definitions") steeped, deemed it their privilege  
That men from Earth should go all the way to Heaven.

**Notes:**

Tirumaṅkai [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") was so steeped in the enjoyment of the Lord in His [Arcā](/definition/arca#history "show Arcā definitions") (Iconic) manifestation in the ‘[Līlā](/definition/lila#vaishnavism "show Līlā definitions") Vibhūthi’ (Sportive Universe), easily worshipped in His image form of exquisite charm, that he even ridiculed the idea of men aspiring for Heaven, like unto the senseless pursuit after the [flying](/definition/flying#history "show flying definitions") crow, letting go the rabbit on hand. And so, there lies the special charm in this abode of ours. It is this aspect that made the denizens in Heaven wonder how the men from Earth did at all go over to Heaven and if they did, it Was only due to the former’s great, good fortune. While this is how the Celestials, engaged in the perpetual service of the Lord in that heavenly setting, and the sages, absorbed in the contemplation of His innumerable auspicious traits, reacted to the entry into Heaven of the new-comers, the ‘[Nityas](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nityas definitions")’, the Eternal Angels, holding key positions in the governance over there, invited the newcomers to take their places straightaway. For example, senāpathi, the Premier Chamberlain to the Lord, would hand over his baton, the symbol of his vast authority, a gracious gesture indeed! This was because the new-comers were looked upon, by them al), as their very masters, the hot-favourites, the vassals of Vaikunṭanātha [Vaikuṇṭhanātha] (Lord of Heaven), in deep love with Him. These new-comers and the denizens, already in Heaven, thrive alike on divine service and it is this very service that is being offered now by the latter to the former.


