+++
title = "1296 Pasuram 10.9.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

விதிவகை புகுந்தனர்என்று நல்வேதியர்  
பதியினில் பாங்கினில் பாதங்கள் கழுவினர்  
நிதியும் நல்சுண்ணமும் நிறைகுட விளக்கமும்  
மதிமுக மடந்தையர் ஏந்தினர் வந்தே.

vitivakai pukuntaṉareṉṟu nalvētiyar  
patiyiṉil pāṅkiṉil pātaṅkaḷ kaḻuviṉar  
nitiyum nalcuṇṇamum niṟaikuṭa viḷakkamum  
matimuka maṭantaiyar ēntiṉar vantē.

**English translation of verse 10.9.10:**

The eternal angels, by the sacred [vedas](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show vedas definitions") adored, did deem  
It their fortune great that these men have to [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") come,  
And so, they did receive them with honours great  
And with due ceremonies washed their feet;  
Came forward the damsels bright whose faces did like the moon shine,  
In their pretty hands, they held the Lord’s foot-rest fine,  
The vermilion [powder](/definition/powder#history "show powder definitions") which is on the devotees’ fore-heads worn,  
Vessels, full of water with coconut lids, and [lamps](/definition/lamp#history "show lamps definitions") auspicious.

**Notes:**

\(i\) The ‘[Nitya](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nitya definitions") [Sūrīs](/definition/suri#history "show Sūrīs definitions")’, the Eternal Angels, who never passed through the gruelling mill of [Saṃsāra](/definition/samsara#history "show Saṃsāra definitions") and are, therefore, known as⁴ aspriṣṭa Samsārīs’, honour the ‘Released Souls’ just [entering](/definition/entering#history "show entering definitions") Heaven on such a grand scale, without the slightest tinge of superiority complex. What makes them admire the new entrants and honour them, by enthroning them and washing their feet, is the fact that these men come from the land of dark nescience, affording very little scope for God-love and yet they are steeped in selfless love of God, too deep for words, and thus have an edge over the ‘[Nityās](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nityās definitions")’ themselves. If the ‘Nityās’ are pure and uncontaminated, it is by-no-means surprising for there is hardly any risk of contamination in Heaven, where they have been all along. On the other hand, it is indeed praiseworthy that those on Earth, situated as they are, should ever be able to turn their attention God-ward and, much less, love Him solely for His sake, with no strings attached.

\(ii\) The faces of the damsels in Heaven brighten up, all the more, due to sheer joy at the sight of these new-comers, like unto the jubilant mother, regaled by the home-coming of the way-Ward son who had strayed, for long, in distant lands.


