+++
title = "13 Pasuram 1.1.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

சுரர் அறிவு அரு நிலை விண் முதல் முழுவதும்  
வரன் முதலாய் அவை முழுது உண்ட பரபரன்  
புரம் ஒரு மூன்று எரித்து அமரர்க்கும் அறிவியந்து  
அரன் அயன் என உலகு அழித்து அமைத்து உளனே.

curar aṟivu aru nilai viṇ mutal muḻuvatum  
varaṉ mutalāy avai muḻutu uṇṭa paraparaṉ  
[puram](/definition/puram#history "show puram definitions") oru mūṉṟu erittu amararkkum aṟiviyantu  
araṉ ayaṉ eṉa ulaku aḻittu amaittu uḷaṉē.

**English translation of verse 1.1.8:**

The Supreme Lord is beyond the comprehension of even [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions") and other *Curar* ([Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions")); He is the material cause of the primordial matter, the other elements and all that exist, and safeguards them all inside His Stomach during the period of [deluge](/definition/deluge#history "show deluge definitions"); He is the one who (functioning through [Śiva](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śiva definitions")) destroyed the three unique [flying](/definition/flying#history "show flying definitions") citadels. He is the propagator of knowledge to the *Amarar* (Devas) through Brahmā; He creates the worlds and dissolves them through *Ayaṉ (Brahmā*) and *Araṉ (Śiva*) standing within them (as their Inner Self).

**Note**

It has been made out in the preceding stanzas that (1) Lord [Mahāviṣṇu](/definition/mahavishnu#vaishnavism "show Mahāviṣṇu definitions") is the Supreme Lord, proclaimed, as such, by the [Vedas](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedas definitions") and (2) He is the Soul of all that exist, controls their creation, sustentation and dissolution. All these might appear to be one-sided, displaying a marked partiality for Mahāviṣṇu, ignoring the claims of the Stalwarts like Brahmā, [Rudra](/definition/rudra#vaishnavism "show Rudra definitions") and other powerful Devas, who have to their credit several achievements, such as creation of the worlds and dissolution thereof, destruction of the flying citadels of the three tough demons, etc. By way of dispelling the superficial belief and knowledge that Mahāviṣṇu is but a co-functionary, on a par with Brahmā and Rudra, that Mahāviṣṇu has the limited function of sustentation only, while the other two are the sole monarchs of their respective [fields](/definition/field#history "show fields definitions") of creation and dissolution, it is now stated that all the three functions vest in Mahāviṣṇu alone, who gets them discharged through the appropriate authority. Śvetāśvatāropaniṣad clarifies that Brahmā emerged from the lotus flower that blossomed on the stalk sprouting from Mahāviṣṇu’s navel and was imparted by Him, the requisite knowledge of the [Vēdas](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vēdas definitions") to carry on the work of creation and disseminate the Vēdas to others. As regards the function of dissolution, Rudra and [Yama](/definition/yama#vaishnavism "show Yama definitions") have their own limitations which Mahāviṣṇu transcends as their Inner Self, sustaining, directing and controlling them all.


