+++
title = "130 Pasuram 1.10.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

செல்வ நாரணன் என்ற சொல் கேட்டலும்,  
மல்கும் கண்பனி நாடுவன் மாயமே,  
அல்லும் நன்பகலும் இடைவீடு இன்றி,  
நல்கி என்னை விடான் நம்பி நம்பியே.

celva nāraṇaṉ eṉṟa col kēṭṭalum,  
malkum kaṇpaṉi nāṭuvaṉ māyamē,  
allum naṉpakalum iṭaivīṭu iṉṟi,  
nalki eṉṉai viṭāṉ [nampi](/definition/nampi#history "show nampi definitions") nampiyē.

**English translation of verse 1.10.8:**

‘Celvanāraṇaṉ,’ the word uttered by some one.  
Heard I, and lo! with [tears](/definition/tear#history "show tears definitions") my eyes did run;  
Searched I whither He is gone, oh, what a marvel!  
[Thro](/definition/thro#history "show Thro definitions")’ friendly days and nights with no interval.  
The perfect Lord, full of grace, tries to win  
My love and elects with me ever to remain.

**Note**

“How unworthy and unbecoming,” the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") rattled, “would be the union of one so vile and abject like me and the Supreme Lord, pure and exalted beyond words!” And so, he fled away and hid himself behind a ruined [wall](/definition/wall#history "show wall definitions"), in a remote corner, with little or no scope of hearing and talking about God-head. Thus he would forget all about God and, as a further precaution against possible detection and intrusion on his privacy, he even put a veil over his head. But what happened? A wayfarer, with a heavy headload, rested a while there, after unburdening himself. While discharging the load, he ejaculated ‘Śrīman Nārāyaṉa [[Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions")]’! in a relaxing mood. The moment this magic word struck the ears of the Āḻvār, he got himself transformed into the ecstatic state, described in this stanza, as above. The Saint was indeed most agreeably surprised that the Lord should shed on him His grace and affection in such super-abundance and reclaim him despite his determination to forget all about Him, for [fear](/definition/fear#history "show fear definitions") of tainting Him. Oh, what a grip the Lord has over His chosen subjects!


