+++
title = "1303 Pasuram 10.10.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

உம்பர்அம்தண் பாழேஓ! அதனுள்மிசை நீயேஓ  
அம்பரம் நல்சோதி! அதனுள் பிரமன் அரன் நீ  
உம்பரும் யாதவரும் படைத்த முனிவன் அவன்நீ  
எம்பரம் சாதிக்கலுற்று என்னைப்போர விட்டிட்டாயே.

umparamtaṇ pāḻēō! ataṉuḷmicai nīyēō  
amparam nalcōti! ataṉuḷ piramaṉ araṉ nī  
umparum yātavarum paṭaitta muṉivaṉ avaṉnī  
emparam cātikkaluṟṟu eṉṉaippōra viṭṭiṭṭāyē.

**English translation of verse 10.10.4:**

My Lord, You are the Controller great of one and all,  
The primordial matter and the myriads of souls lodged therein,  
The spatial ether, the radiant fire and other elements as well,  
The cosmic egg which holds Piramaṉ, Araṉ and others within,  
The sage You are, Who did create the [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions"), the humans  
And the other [species](/definition/species#history "show species definitions"), keeping in mind their past actions;  
To salve me You did come forward, on Your own  
But still you do keep me here, lingering on.

**Notes:**

\(i\) In a vacant piece of land one can raise any [crop](/definition/crop#history "show crop definitions") according to one’s predilection, and so, in the vast vacant land of Primordial Matter ([Mūla Prakṛti](/definition/mulaprakriti#history "show Mūla Prakṛti definitions")) can be sown multifarious seeds, yielding a vast variety of [crops](/definition/crop#history "show crops definitions") of enjoyment as well as emancipation, that either bind the souls, the tenants tilling the soil, or work up to their release from such [bondage](/definition/bondage#history "show bondage definitions").

\(ii\) Unto the Lord, the Universal Controller, the Matter, the elements emanating therefrom, the different species of beings inhabiting the created worlds with their colourful varieties, all these constitute, as it were, His bodies, and He is the Super-Soul, pervading them all.

\(iii\) So far as the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") is concerned, he is fully aware, against the background, set forth above, that the Lord is very keen to salve him and yet, he is indeed puzzled why he is still kept on, in this abode. “Does it not smack of indifference on Your part?” the Āḻvār is now asking the Lord.


