+++
title = "143 Pasuram 2.1.6"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நைவாய எம்மேபோல் நாள் மதியே நீ இந் நாள்,  
மை வான் இருள் அகற்றாய் மாழாந்து தேம்புதியால்,  
ஐ வாய் அரவு அணைமேல் ஆழிப் பெருமானார்,  
மெய் வாசகம் கேட்டு உன் மெய்ந்நீர்மை தோற்றாயே

naivāya emmēpōl nāḷ matiyē nī in nāḷ,  
mai vāṉ iruḷ akaṟṟāy māḻāntu tēmputiyāl,  
ai vāy aravu aṇaimēl āḻip perumāṉār,  
mey vācakam kēṭṭu uṉ meynnīrmai tōṟṟāyē

**English translation of verse 2.1.6:**

Worn out like us, you withering Moon!  
These days, the dark sky you don’t illumine;  
You have, it seems, lost your erstwhile sheen,  
Misled by the utterance of the Lord who the discus holds,  
Reclining on the [serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show serpent definitions") with its five hoods.

**Notes**

\(i\) The Moon waxes and wanes because of its different phases, but Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī attributes the waning of the Moon and the resultant diminution of its brightness to a mental malady, on a par with her own.

\(ii\) In her present state of mental depression, the Nāyakī is so sore with the Lord that she says that the Lord’s utterances should not be taken at their face value. No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") averred that his tongue shall never lie. Unfortunately, however, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") reproaches the Lord as being double-tongued like the serpent on which He reclines. The serpent has a double-forked tongue in each of its hoods and here is a serpent with five hoods. And then, it was with His discus that the Lord covered the Sun and converted day into the illusory night; thus, the discus was a pawn in the game, an accomplice of the Lord for carrying out the strategy. If, as Śrī [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions"), the Lord scrupulously adhered to truth, as Śrī [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"), He would not mind swerving from it, if thereby He could do a good turn to His devotees. It could not, therefore, be said that the Lord was guilty of falsehood, merely sticking to the letter with academic zeal, without going into the spiritbehind His actions. The Lord is beneficial to His is devotees both ways, by adhering to the truth, as Śri Rāma did, and swerving from it, as Śrī Kṛṣṇa did. Nunipiḷḷai observed: “We seek shelter alike in Rāma’s truthfulness and Kṛṣṇa’s diplomacy (seeming falsehoods).


