+++
title = "154 Pasuram 2.2.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

தேவும் எப் பொருளும் படைக்கப்,  
பூவில் நான்முகனைப் படைத்த,  
தேவன் எம் பெருமானுக்கு அல்லால்,  
பூவும் பூசனையும் தகுமே.

tēvum ep poruḷum paṭaikkap,  
pūvil nāṉmukaṉaip paṭaitta,  
tēvaṉ em perumāṉukku allāl,  
pūvum pūcaṉaiyum takumē.

**English translation of verse 2.2.4:**

Can one worship and with flowers decorate  
Any one other than ‘Emperumāṉ’ (our Supreme Lord)  
Who, the lotus-based, four-headed [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions"), ushered.  
The [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions") and the rest to create?

**Notes**

\(i\) Worship can be offered only to the Supreme Lord and being of exquisite charm, He alone is worthy of decoration.

\(ii\) Here is an interesting anecdote:

Prior to his absorption into the Vaiṣṇavite fold, Empār, the illustrious Preceptor (a cousin of Śrī Rāmānuja) was, for some time, serving in the [Śivā](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śivā definitions") [temple](/definition/temple#history "show temple definitions") at Kāḷahasti, under the appellation of “Uḷḷaṅkai Koṇarnta Nāyaṉār”. One day, when he stood perched on a [tree](/definition/tree#history "show tree definitions"), [gathering](/definition/gathering#history "show gathering definitions") flowers for the diurnal worship of the Deity, right underneath, Śrī Tirumalai [Nampi](/definition/nampi#history "show Nampi definitions"), his uncle, was discoursing on this particular stanza to his disciples. The votary, high up on the tree, burst out with an emphatic ‘NO’, in reply to the question put in this stanza, jumped down, tore off his Rudrākṣa [necklace](/definition/necklace#history "show necklace definitions") (worn by the votaries of [Rudra](/definition/rudra#vaishnavism "show Rudra definitions")) and fell at the feet of the learned discourser, seeking refuge in him.


