+++
title = "160 Pasuram 2.2.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கள்வா எம்மையும் ஏழ் உலகும், நின்  
உள்ளே தோற்றிய இறைவ! என்று,  
வெள் ஏறன் நான்முகன் இந்திரன் வானவர்,  
புள் ஊர்தி கழல் பணிந்து ஏத்துவரே.

kaḷvā emmaiyum ēḻ ulakum, niṉ  
uḷḷē tōṟṟiya iṟaiva! eṉṟu,  
veḷ ēṟaṉ nāṉmukaṉ intiraṉ vāṉavar,  
puḷ ūrti kaḻal paṇintu ēttuvarē.

**English translation of verse 2.2.10:**

Veḷḷēṟaṉ ([Rudra](/definition/rudra#vaishnavism "show Rudra definitions")), Nāṉmukaṉ ([Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions")), [Indra](/definition/indra#vaishnavism "show Indra definitions") and Vāṉavar ([Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions")) congregate  
And worship at the feet of the Lord with that [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions") ([Garuḍa](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍa definitions")) as His mount  
And unto Him, pray ‘Iṟaiva’ (by your resolve), you brought out  
The seven worlds and us all and yet you will hide out.  
Like a thief, your greatness and to us for favours resort”.

**Notes**

\(i\) The Celestials, including Rudra, with the white bull as bis mount, the four-headed Brahmā, Indra and others of that exalted band, seek various boons from [Mahā Viṣṇu](/definition/mahavishnu#vaishnavism "show Mahā Viṣṇu definitions"), the Supreme Lord, and their power to grant, in turn, the wishes of their votaries is thus derived from Him alone. And yet, they wish to tickle their vanity by making it appear that even the Supreme Lord seeks favour from them. It is noteworthy, Lord Kṛiṣṇa just tickled the vanity of Rudra when He sought from the latter that He be blessed with a son through His consort, Rukmiṇi. It is for this that the Lord has been referred to, in this stanza, as a thief.

\(ii\) [Divya](/definition/divya#vaishnavism "show Divya definitions") [Kavi](/definition/kavi#vaishnavism "show Kavi definitions") (The poet, *par excellence*), Piḷḷai Perumāḻ Ayyangār exclaims: “Oh, Lord, what a paradox that you, from whom all things emanate, are dubbed a thief for having stolen butter! Actually, we are the thieves, who think and act as if we are our own, not [realising](/definition/realising#history "show realising definitions") that we belong to you, the rightful owner”.


