+++
title = "177 Pasuram 2.4.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஆடி ஆடி அகம் கரைந்து, இசை  
பாடிப் பாடிக் கண்ணீர் மல்கி, எங்கும்  
நாடி நாடி நரசிங்கா என்று,  
வாடி வாடும் இவ் வாள் நுதலே.

āṭi āṭi akam karaintu, icai  
pāṭip pāṭik kaṇṇīr malki, eṅkum  
nāṭi nāṭi naraciṅkā eṉṟu,  
[vāṭi](/definition/vati#history "show vāṭi definitions") vāṭum iv vāḷ nutalē.

**English translation of verse 2.4.1:**

This young dame of forehead bright,  
Keeps rattling, with a mind worn out;  
Looking out all over she sings and sings.  
Cries out, “Oh, Naraciṅkā!” and sinks.

**Notes**

\(i\) The mother exclaims:

> “Alas! my daughter feels let down by the Lord who, as > [Narasiṃha](/definition/narasimha#history "show Narasiṃha definitions") > (Man-[Lion](/definition/lion#history "show Lion definitions")), came > to > [Prahlāda](/definition/prahlada#vaishnavism "show Prahlāda definitions")’s > aid. Restive and rattling, she looks out for Him everywhere, her heart > melts down in contemplation of the Lord and she cries out for Him in > melodious notes expressive of her melancholy”.

\(ii\) The [tears](/definition/tear#history "show tears definitions") flowing down the cheeks of Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī in torrents remind us of Hamunān’s query to [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions"), the Divine Mother in captivity, why tears were rolling down her cheeks.

\(iii\) Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī is looking out here, there and everywhere for the Lord who, she is sure, will never fail to succour His devotees. As Narasiṅkā He had studiously stationed Himself in every nook and comer, pillar and particle. While discoursing on this song, Śri [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar said:

> “Parāṇkuśa Nāyakī is looking for the Lord even in the folds of her > [sari](/definition/shari#vaishnavism "show sari definitions").”.

Had He not once got on to the hip of the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") in the course of His ascent to the Āḻvār’s head? (1-9-4).

\(iv\) Says the gnostic mother: “My daughter is indeed worried, over and over again, whether the Lord would help only Prahḻāda and not her. She has not, however, given up hopes as yet and that is why [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") is still sticking to her”. Face is the index of the mind and Parāṅkuṣa Nāyakī’s lingering hopes are reflected on her forehead.


