+++
title = "179 Pasuram 2.4.3"

+++
**English translation of verse 2.4.3:**

**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

இரக்க மனத்தோடு எரி அணை,  
அரக்கும் மெழுகும் ஒக்கும் இவள்,  
இரக்கம் எழீர் இதற்கு என் செய்கேன்,  
அரக்கன் இலங்கை செற்றீருக்கே.

irakka maṉattōṭu eri aṇai,  
arakkum meḻukum okkum ivaḷ,  
irakkam eḻīr itaṟku eṉ ceykēṉ,  
arakkaṉ ilaṅkai ceṟṟīrukkē.

**English translation of verse 2.4.3:**

You, who the demon’s [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions") did rout,  
Relent not for this dame of tender heart,  
Who is like unto wax set on fire;  
Oh, what can I do for her?

**Note**

[Mother to the Lord:]

> “What you did to reclaim > [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") from her > captivity in Laṅkā, how you languished without > [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions") and sleep > days on end, how you bunded the roaring sea and routed > [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions")’s > Laṅkā, lock, stock and barrel have been chronicled by sage > [Vālmīki](/definition/valmiki#vaishnavism "show Vālmīki definitions") > in his immortal > [Rāmāyaṇa](/definition/ramayana#vaishnavism "show Rāmāyaṇa definitions"). > And so it is well within the Knowledge of my hapless daughter. > Therefore it is she feels tormented why she couldn’t get a similar > treatment at your hands. Oh, what a contrasting picture! my daughter > of melting tenderness of heart, like the wax come in contact with > fire, and you, absolutely hard-hearted and unrelenting. What can I do, > in between? There is no remedy for this situation except the influx of > your sweet grace. I daresay you who did so much for Sītā, will not lay > yourself open to the charge of cruel partiality and terrible > discrimination by not coming to my daughter’s aid, at once.”


