+++
title = "18 Introduction to Section 1.2"

+++
The transcendental glory of the Supreme Lord, His Supremacy as the material cause as well as the efficient cause and final cause of all [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") and being, the fact of His being the one and only Giver, either directly or through other minor deities, whose favours their respective votaries seek. His lustrous Feet being the sure and certain means of [salvation](/definition/salvation#history "show salvation definitions") for one and all, all these having been revealed to the Saint by the Lord Himself, the Saint revelled in this blissful knowledge, in the preceding [Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions"). Far from being selfish and self-centred, he wanted to share all this knowledge with his fellow beings, as a matter of mutual joy and enlightenment. But, alas! he found them all steeped in worldly life, just the very reverse of what he was. And yet, He would not lose heart. Banking on their inherent capacity to discriminate between good and bad things, he now exhorts them to give up the elusive and obnoxious pleasures of worldly life, disengage themselves from the erroneous notions of ‘I’ and ‘Mine’ and dedicate themselves to the apprehension of the limitless wealth and splendour of the Supreme Lord and reap the [rich](/definition/rich#history "show rich definitions") harvest of eternal bliss and beatitude. In this decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") also teaches that true renunciation is of the mind, as distinguished from mere bodily displacements, such as fleeing away from the haunts of men and living a secluded life in a [forest](/definition/forest#history "show forest definitions"). No place is safe and impregnable to the invasion of temptations which could molest the mind, as seen from the examples of Ādi-[Bharata](/definition/bharata#vaishnavism "show Bharata definitions") ([Jaḍa](/definition/jada#vaishnavism "show Jaḍa definitions")-Bharata) and Śaubhari.

The Āḻvār exhorts, in the third stanza of this decad, as follows:

> “Pluck out the > [disease](/definition/disease#history "show disease definitions") of > ‘I-ness’ and ‘My-ness’, right from the roots and join the Lord”.

Renunciation, therefore, lies in disengaging one’s mind from the erroneous notions of ‘I’ and ‘Mine’ and surrendering oneself, *in toto*, to the will of God. Examples of such mental renunciation are found in [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions") Janaka and Saint Kulacēkara, Did not the former say, unaffected by the illusory fire inducted by Sage [Śuka](/definition/shuka#vaishnavism "show Śuka definitions"), “mithilāyāṃ pradagdhāyāṃ na me kiñcitpradahyate?”[1]

Kulacēkara Āḻvār [sang](/definition/sang#history "show sang definitions"), in his ‘Perumāḷ Tirumoḻi, IV decad:

***Stanza* 5:**

> “This realm, with all its wealth, I abjure,  
> [Riding](/definition/riding#history "show Riding definitions") the > [elephant](/definition/elephant#history "show elephant definitions") > in rut, frightful to behold;  
> The blessing of being a shrub, I implore,  
> At lovely Tiruvēṅkaṭam, abode of my Liege, Lord”.

***Stanza* 7:**

> “Little do I value being a King of > [Kings](/definition/king#history "show Kings definitions"), all that > name and fame,  
> Holding sway under a single parasol, white as the full moon;  
> Instead, ‘tis my earnest will that I should, as a jungle stream.  
> Course through Tirumalai with its honey-studded flower gardens”.


