+++
title = "243 Introduction to Section 2.9"

+++
This decad pinpoints the concept of ‘*Puriṣārtha*’ the ultimate value of the final goal of every individual. In the preceding decad, frequent references were made by the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") to the Eternal Land of absolute bliss. On hearing these, the Lord thought He would rather put the Āḻvār in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") if that was all His desire and accordingly told him, “Well, you can have the [Mokṣa](/definition/moksha#vaishnavism "show Mokṣa definitions"), as desired”, It is now and here that the position gets crystallised. The Āḻvār revolves in his mind and concludes that any thing granted by the Lord, by way of catering to his desire instead of His own, is not worth having, and even heaven attained this way, would be little better than [hell](/definition/hell#history "show hell definitions"). The real ‘*Puruṣārtḥa*’, or ultimate value lies in whatever is bestowed by the Lord out of His own free grace and liking.

And so, the Āḻvār speaks out his mind, as follows:

> “My Lord, it makes absolutely no difference to me whether 1 am in > heaven as the partaker of the endless bliss there or in the state of > *Kaivaḻya*, lost in self-enjoyment or get consigned to the gloomy > abyss, if it is all your sweet will and dispensation. On the other > hand, I will not hesitate to decline even the gift of heaven, if it is > bestowed on me just for my gratification. And so, may it please you to > so ordain my goal as to make it coincide solely with your desire”.

Here is a clear enunciation of the paramountcy of the Lord’s will, in total subjugation of the egoistic compulsions of the Individual. It is indeed very hard to find the Subject who can appreciate and fall in [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") with the Āḻvār’s lofty train of thought, totally bereft of egoistic impulses and putting his whole weight on the Lord. It was for this very reason that Empār, the great preceptor, is said to have screened his audience and closed the gates of the lecture hall before discoursing on this decad.


