+++
title = "254 Pasuram 2.9.11"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

விடல் இல் சக்கரத்து அண்ணலை மேவல்  
விடல் இல் வண் குருகூர்ச் சடகோபன்,  
கெடல் இல் ஆயிரத்துள் இவை பத்தும்,  
கெடல் இல் வீடு செய்யும் கிளர்வார்க்கே.

viṭal il cakkarattu aṇṇalai mēval  
viṭal il vaṇ kurukūrc [caṭakōpaṉ](/definition/catakopan#vaishnavism "show caṭakōpaṉ definitions"),  
keṭal il āyirattuḷ ivai pattum,  
keṭal il vīṭu ceyyum kiḷarvārkkē.

**English translation of verse 2.9.11:**

These songs ten, out of the thousand immortal songs  
Of [Kurukūr](/definition/kurukur#vaishnavism "show Kurukūr definitions") Caṭakōpaṉ, ever close to the Lord,  
Who the discus inseparable holds, will unto those that sing  
Them ardently, bestow heavenly bliss, from all ills freed.

**Notes**

\(i\) These ten stanzas will confer on those who recite them heavenly bliss. It need not be questioned how these songs could, by themselves, grant [Mokṣa](/definition/moksha#vaishnavism "show Mokṣa definitions"), which is the sole prerogative of the Supreme Lord. What is intended to be conveyed by this end-song is that the recital of these ten songs will gladden the Lord and, as a consequence thereof, His gift of Mokṣa will follow. C.f. IV-5-11 where the lotus-born [Lakṣmī](/definition/lakshmi#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmī definitions") is said to confer Mokṣa on those who recite the ten stanzas in that decad. Actually, the Lord is the sole Granter of Mokṣa but He grants it only through the instrumentality of [Śrī Lakṣmī](/definition/shrilakshmi#vaishnavism "show Śrī Lakṣmī definitions"), as the Grand Intercessor between Man and God and her recommendatory role plays a very vital part in the ascent of Man to the [foot-stool](/definition/foot-stool#history "show foot-stool definitions") of God.

\(ii\) In the last song, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") had requested the Lord not to let him slip back to his old ways. The Lord assured the Āḻvār that he need have no misgivings whatsoever and added that it was not for giving up devotees like him that He was carrying in His hand the discus all the time. By implication, He could hold on to His devotee as firmly as He held the discus.


