+++
title = "28 Pasuram 1.2.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

எண் பெருக்கு அந் நலத்து ஒண் பொருள் ஈறு இல  
வண் புகழ் நாரணன் திண் கழல் சேரே.

eṇ perukku an nalattu oṇ poruḷ īṟu ila  
vaṇ pukaḻ nāraṇaṉ tiṇ kaḻal cērē.

**English translation of verse 1.2.10:**

Seek ye, the mighty feet (the sure haven of all) of Nāraṇaṉ, who is, at once, the abode of countless souls of vast excellence and an inexhaustible fountain of bliss, the repository of innumerable auspicious attributes.

**Notes**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") concludes this, his first address to the fellow-beings, by [teaching](/definition/teaching#history "show teaching definitions") them how to pray, that is, by giving out the substance of the eight-lettered ‘Tirumantra’, as above.

\(ii\) Kūratṭāḻvāṉ, who was teaching [Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions") to his two sons, Bhaṭṭar and Śrīrāmappiḷḷai, stopped short when he came to this stanza, explanatory of the holy [prayer](/definition/prayer#history "show prayer definitions") (Tirumantra), which had to be taught by their constituted [Guru](/definition/guru#vaishnavism "show Guru definitions"), Śrī Empār, residing in the same [street](/definition/street#history "show street definitions"), just a few [houses](/definition/house#history "show houses definitions") off.

Āḻvāṉ ordered the two youngsters to go to their Guru and learn the meaning of this stanza. Just as they were leaving, he called them back, saying:

> “Stay! [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") is > precarious and uncertain and one does not know who may live and who > may die the next moment. You may, therefore, hear (the esoteric > meaning of this verse) from myself.” He then proceeded to explain to > them the purport of this stanza which has a direct bearing on > ‘Tirumantra’. This only goes to emphasize that not a moment should be > lost in > [learning](/definition/learning#history "show learning definitions") > the [Science](/definition/science#history "show Science definitions") > that will lead us to God, the more so, when human life is precarious > and uncertain.


