+++
title = "287 Pasuram 3.2.3"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கொல்லா மாக்கோல் கொலைசெய்து பாரதப் போர்,  
எல்லாச் சேனையும் இரு நிலத்து அவித்த எந்தாய்,  
பொல்லா ஆக்கையின் புணர்வினை அறுக்கல் அறா,  
சொல்லாய் யான் உன்னைச் சார்வது ஓர் சூழ்ச்சியே.

kollā mākkōl kolaiceytu pāratap pōr,  
ellāc cēṉaiyum iru nilattu avitta entāy,  
pollā ākkaiyiṉ puṇarviṉai aṟukkal aṟā,  
collāy yāṉ uṉṉaic cārvatu ōr cūḻcciyē.

**English translation of verse 3.2.3:**

My Master! With a (mere) non-lethal [horse](/definition/horse#history "show horse definitions")-[whip](/definition/whip#history "show whip definitions") in your hand  
You routed the armies in this vast land,  
(Earth’s wholesome burden) in Bhārat’s battle great,  
May you spell out the means for [cutting](/definition/cutting#history "show cutting definitions") out  
My contact with this fell body, difficult to cut,  
So that I do attain your lovely feet.

**Notes**

\(i\) It is sheer ignorance to hold that the great battle of [Mahā Bhārata](/definition/mahabharata#vaishnavism "show Mahā Bhārata definitions") was won by the [Pāṇḍavas](/definition/pandava#vaishnavism "show Pāṇḍavas definitions"). Actually it was Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"), who got Mother Earth rid of her unwholesome burden, and it was indeed the purpose of His incarnation. Barring a few, on both sides (the five Pāṇḍavas, Aśvattāma, [Kṛpācārya](/definition/kripacarya#vaishnavism "show Kṛpācārya definitions") and Kṛtavarmā), all the rest were annihilated and it was all the work of Śrī [Kṛṣṇā](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇā definitions")’s whip. With no other [weapon](/definition/weapon#history "show weapon definitions") in hand, the Master strategist directed and controlled the military strategy at every turn and made it possible for the Pāṇdavas to claim victory. A mere chariot driver holding the horse whip, He ostensibly was, and yet, [Arjuna](/definition/arjuna#vaishnavism "show Arjuna definitions") thoughtfully leaned on Him, fully conscious of the basic truth that, where Lord Kṛṣṇa is, there and there, success is. On the other hand. [Duryodhana](/definition/duryodhana#vaishnavism "show Duryodhana definitions") who had been advised by the grand old Bhīṣmācār [Bhīṣmācārya?] to seek Śrī Kṛṣṇa’s help and enlist Him on the side of the [Kauravas](/definition/kauravas#vaishnavism "show Kauravas definitions"), did make a formality of an appointment with Śrī Kṛṣṇa, but decided to give Him up, on being told that He was all alone, with no fighting force behind. The sagacious Bhīṣma regretted this fatal decision of Duryodhana and sent him back to Śrī Kṛṣṇa to extract an assurance from Him that He would not wield any weapon during the battle. The Lord readily agreed and, therefore it is, that [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions") says, in this song, that it was the mere horse-whip in the hand of the Divine Charioteer that proved so deadly.

\(ii\) The Saint laments that he had, not only missed the benefit of the Lord’s incarnation as ‘[Vāmana](/definition/vamana#history "show Vāmana definitions")’ but also that of Kṛṣṇāvatāra, the proximate one.


