+++
title = "300 Pasuram 3.3.3"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

அண்ணல் மாயன் அணி கொள் செந்தாமரைக்  
கண்ணன் செங்கனி, வாய்க் கருமாணிக்கம்,  
தெள் நிறை சுனை நீர்த், திருவேங்கடத்து,  
எண் இல் தொல் புகழ் வானவர் ஈசனே.

aṇṇal māyaṉ aṇi koḷ centāmaraik  
kaṇṇaṉ ceṅkaṉi, vāyk karumāṇikkam,  
teḷ niṟai cuṉai nīrt, tiruvēṅkaṭattu,  
eṇ il tol pukaḻ vāṉavar īcaṉē.

**English translation of verse 3.3.3:**

Our wondrous sire at Tiruvēṅkaṭam,  
Holding water fed from cascades, pure and plenty,  
Shines like the lustrous blue gem,  
With lotus eyes and lips, red and radiant, of rare beauty;  
Of countless qualities, auspicious and abiding,  
He, His sway over the Celestials, is holding.

**Notes**

\(i\) Questioned whether the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") would be able to put through the service unto the Lord at Tiruvēṅkaṭam, as contemplated, the Āḻvār says, with an air of assurance that the Lord is the Supreme Benefactor, making it possible for the Celestials and other numerous highly evolved souls to drink deep of His nectarean beauty in Mount Tiruvēṅkaṭam and He would certainly not deny this benefit to the Āḻvār. Otherwise, how can He live up to His glory as the possessor of innumerable auspicious traits, ever present in Him?

\(ii\) *Of wondrous beauty*

The radiant eyes, red like lotus flower, staṇd out foremost and what else is required to beautify Him? The Lord sheds His grace through His eyes and it is but proper that the eyes are mentioned first and next in order, the lips from which He utters words, full of affection for His devotees. Again, it is the bewitching smile on these coral lips, that attracts one and all to Him.


