+++
title = "327 Pasuram 3.5.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

வம்பு அவிழ் கோதைபொருட்டா மால்விடை ஏழும் அடர்த்த,  
செம்பவளத் திரள் வாயன் சிரீதரன் தொல்புகழ் பாடி,  
கும்பிடு நட்டம் இட்டு ஆடி கோகு உகட்டுண்டு உழலாதார்,  
தம்பிறப்பால் பயன் என்னே சாது சனங்களிடையே?

vampu aviḻ kōtaiporuṭṭā mālviṭai ēḻum aṭartta,  
cempavaḷat tiraḷ vāyaṉ cirītaraṉ tolpukaḻ [pāṭi](/definition/pati#vaishnavism "show pāṭi definitions"),  
kumpiṭu naṭṭam iṭṭu āṭi kōku ukaṭṭuṇṭu uḻalātār,  
tampiṟappāl payaṉ eṉṉē cātu caṉaṅkaḷiṭaiyē?

**English translation of verse 3.5.4:**

Of what use are those born amidst the devout pure and pious,  
That sing not and jump not, running riot,  
Adoring the coral-lipped cirītaraṉ’s glory great,  
His taming of the unruly [bulls](/definition/bull#history "show bulls definitions") seven for winning the hand  
Of the Bride (Nappiṉṉai) wearing the highly fragrant garland?

**Notes**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") is vexed with those indifferent sinners, born in the midst of the ‘Sātvik Souls’ (good and pure), not losing themselves in ecstatic adoration of the glory, of Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") who tamed, all at once, seven unruly bulls and won Nappiṉṉai, the charming bride, niece of [Queen](/definition/queen#history "show Queen definitions") [Yaśodā](/definition/yashoda#vaishnavism "show Yaśodā definitions"),

\(ii\) *Coral-lipped Cirītaraṉ*: The red lips of Śrī Kṛṣṇa, rendered all the more enchanting by His bewitching smile of victory over the unruly bulls.

\(iii\) Śrī Piḷḷaippiḷḻai, a disciple of kūrattāḻvāṉ, drew up the following contrasting picture, to illustrate the phraseology “persons born in the midst of the ‘Sātvik’ (pure and pious people), used in this song.

Near the holy [tank](/definition/tank#history "show tank definitions"), [Candra](/definition/candra#vaishnavism "show Candra definitions") puṣkaraṇi, within the precincts of the [temple](/definition/temple#history "show temple definitions") of Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions") in [Śrīraṅgam](/definition/shrirangam#vaishnavism "show Śrīraṅgam definitions"), there is the sacred Puṉṉai [tree](/definition/tree#history "show tree definitions"). Under the shade of this tree, the religious Pundits used to give learned discourses to the handful of devout listeners, squeezed in the little space available in the passage around, in rapt attention. There would, of course, be no objection to a further influx of like-minded listeners, keen and receptive, adding to the congestion. But see how odd and irksome it would be, if the hefty villagers with their hairy, humpy shoulders, pot-bellies and headgears, passing along, thrust themselves in, out of sheer curiosity, and elbow the pious listeners out.


