+++
title = "330 Pasuram 3.5.7"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நீர்மை இல் நூற்றுவர் வீய ஐவர்க்கு அருள்செய்து நின்று,  
பார்மல்கு சேனை அவித்த பரஞ்சுடரை நினைந்து ஆடி  
நீர்மல்கு கண்ணினர் ஆகி நெஞ்சம் குழைந்து நையாதே,  
ஊன் மல்கி மோடு பருப்பார் உத்தமர்கட்கு என் செய்வாரே?

nīrmai il nūṟṟuvar vīya aivarkku aruḷceytu niṉṟu,  
pārmalku cēṉai avitta parañcuṭarai niṉaintu āṭi  
nīrmalku kaṇṇiṉar āki neñcam kuḻaintu naiyātē,  
ūṉ malki mōṭu paruppār uttamarkaṭku eṉ ceyvārē?

**English translation of verse 3.5.7:**

Of what use unto the devout are they  
That are fat and pot-bellied, who melt not  
In ecstasy, [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") and [dancing](/definition/dancing#history "show dancing definitions") with [tears](/definition/tear#history "show tears definitions") of joy,  
Meditating on the resplendent Lord Supreme Who did blot  
The cruel hundred out and on (their cousins) five shed His grace  
Routing the armies and ridding Earth of unwholesome populace?

**Note**

The ‘[Kauravas](/definition/kauravas#vaishnavism "show Kauravas definitions")’ (the cruel hundred) would just not allow their five cousins, the [Pāṇḍavas](/definition/pandava#vaishnavism "show Pāṇḍavas definitions"), to co-exist. The Lord had, therefore, to annihilate such terribly hostile cousins of the Pāṇḍavas and, in the process, He got the Earth rid of its unwholesome burden. Crores of [Sādhus](/definition/sadhu#vaishnavism "show Sādhus definitions") would, by no means, be a burden to Mother Earth to whom they are just as light as [cotton](/definition/cotton#history "show cotton definitions"), but the sinners press too heavily on her. The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") deplores the conduct of those remaining unmoved by the Lord’s enormous grace, shown to His devotees as above. These hapless men seem to have been born just to make their poor mothers suffer the pangs of [labour](/definition/labour#history "show labour definitions"). It is a pity such men cannot be of any use to the devout [Vaiṣṇavas](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇavas definitions") at whose beck and call the Lord and all His possessions ever remain. While on this subject, the following episode will be interesting and instructive:

In the court of a [Cōḷa](/definition/cola#history "show Cōḷa definitions") [Rājā](/definition/raja#history "show Rājā definitions"), [Periya Nampi](/definition/periya-nampi#vaishnavism "show Periya Nampi definitions"), Śrī Rāmānuja’s preceptor, had to undergo mortification owing to his refusal to subscribe to the slogan raised by the [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions") and his men, “[Śiva](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śiva definitions") is the Supreme God”. Some of these men, however, wanted to claim the merit which accrues by cremating the uncared-for corpses of the destitute and rushed to the scene of [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions") of Periya [Nampi](/definition/nampi#history "show Nampi definitions"). But they shrank back, when they saw the illustrious Kūrattāḻvāṉ by the side of that great [Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions").

Kūrattāḷvāṉ admonished them by saying,

> “You fellows can hardly find a single destitute > [Vaiṣṇava](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇava definitions") > by cremating whom you seem to be in for cheap merit. You should all > know that the Lord and all His worlds are there to subserve the > Vaiṣṇavas at all times”.


