+++
title = "336 Introduction to Section 3.6"

+++
In the preceding decad, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") extolled the devotees thrown into a state of ecstasy, enraptured by the contemplation of the Lord’s wondrous deeds and auspicious traits, moving about, all the time [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") and [dancing](/definition/dancing#history "show dancing definitions"). In the same breath he spoke disparagingly of those who do not exhibit this kind of behaviour but remain callously indifferent, unmoved by and impervious to the glory of the Lord. But then, the Āḻvār, known for his deep compassion and love for the fellow-beings, wished to bring round even those in the latter category and impress, in their mind, the Lord’s extraordinary trait of tender solicitude and easy accessibility. No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), the Āḻvār had already expatiated on this in 1-3, but that was in terms of the Lord’s incarnations ([Vibhava](/definition/vibhava#vaishnavism "show Vibhava definitions") aspect). And now, in this decad, the Āḻvār expounds the Lord’s ‘Saulabhya’ easy accessibility in His Iconic Form which is not only the most easily accessible but also the very embodiment of every known and conceivable good quality in a perfect measure, a complete enumeration whereof would be beyond the capacity of the omniscient Lord Himself. Verily, the Lord’s [Arcā](/definition/arca#history "show Arcā definitions") (Iconic) manifestation is the very acme, the farthest limit of His wonderful trait of ‘Saulabhya’. Nampiḷḷai likens the Āḻvār’s great gesture to that of [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions"), the captive in [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"), who tendered wholesome advice to the lustful [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions") who desired to have promiscuous relation with the Divine Mother, mistaking her for a mere woman. Even as the Āḻvār made no secret of his vexation, in the last decad, of callous indifference and aloofness of men devoid of God-love, Sītā too got vexed with Rāvaṇa’s amorous advances and the dearth of wholesome counsellors in the land, who could bring round this fiend of a fellow, terribly love-smitten. But, being grace personified, she herself counselled him to befriend [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") and avoid a gruesome [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions").

The ninth song is the crucial one high-[lighting](/definition/lighting#history "show lighting definitions") the theme of this decad.


