+++
title = "345 Pasuram 3.6.9"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

தஞ்சம் ஆகிய தந்தை தாயொடு தானும் ஆய் அவை அல்லன் ஆய்,  
எஞ்சல் இல் அமரர் குலமுதல் மூவர் தம்முள்ளும் ஆதியை,  
அஞ்சி நீர் உலகத்துள்ளீர்கள்! அவன் இவன் என்று கூழேன்மின்,  
நெஞ்சினால் நினைப்பான் எவன் அவன் ஆகும் நீள் கடல் வண்ணனே.

tañcam ākiya tantai tāyoṭu tāṉum āy avai allaṉ āy,  
eñcal il amarar kulamutal [mūvar](/definition/muvar#history "show mūvar definitions") tammuḷḷum ātiyai,  
[añci](/definition/amci#history "show añci definitions") nīr ulakattuḷḷīrkaḷ! avaṉ ivaṉ eṉṟu kūḻēṉmiṉ,  
neñciṉāl niṉaippāṉ evaṉ avaṉ ākum nīḷ kaṭal vaṇṇaṉē.

**English translation of verse 3.6.9:**

Ye, men of the world, be not scared (of the supremacy)  
Of our Lord, Chief of the Celestials, foremost of the three,  
He is the Father benign, Mother and much more, you see,  
Be not agitated whether He is other than the one in Image Form  
(You behold here); be sure, the Lord of oceanic hue does assume  
Whatever form you in your mind lovingly conceive of Him.

**Notes**

\(i\) The worldlings, addressed by the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), expressed their difficulty in [worshipping](/definition/worshipping#history "show worshipping definitions") the Lord currently, either in His transcendent form or in His incarnate forms as [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") or [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"). The Āḻvār puts them at ease by telling them now that the Lord is easily worshippable in any form they like, without any loss or diminution of His divine prowess and that they can, therefore, worship Him easily in His ‘[Arcā](/definition/arca#history "show Arcā definitions")’ (image) Form. This song is thus the key note of this decad and all the preceding eight songs have only served as a preamble.

\(ii\) As we see among our earthly relations, the mother is different from the father. The Lord is, however, our eternal Father as well as Mother and has an individuality of His own, being very different from the earthly parents. The earthly parents have their own limitations and are not also always dependable, their own interests superseding those of the progeny. Instances of parents giving up their young ones under certain circumstances are not wanting. Further, it is our [Karma](/definition/karma#vaishnavism "show Karma definitions") that binds us to our earthly parents and this artificial link gets automatically severed with the severance of our own bonds of Karma, our relationship with the Lord is, however, eternal, being inalienable.

Further, there is scarcely a relationship which the Lord cannot assume, in regard to His subjects, being All-in-one, Father, Mother and all other conceivable relations put together.


