+++
title = "363 Pasuram 3.8.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

முடியானே! மூவுலகும் தொழுது ஏத்தும் சீர்  
அடியானே, ஆழ் கடலைக் கடைந்தாய்! புள் ஊர்  
கொடியானே, கொண்டல் வண்ணா! அண்டத்து உம்பரில்  
நெடியானே!, என்று கிடக்கும் என் நெஞ்சமே. (2)

muṭiyāṉē! mūvulakum toḻutu ēttum cīr  
aṭiyāṉē, āḻ kaṭalaik kaṭaintāy! puḷ ūr  
koṭiyāṉē, koṇṭal vaṇṇā! aṇṭattu umparil  
neṭiyāṉē!, eṉṟu kiṭakkum eṉ neñcamē. (2)

**English translation of verse 3.8.1:**

My mind thaws down, calling you, my Lord!  
As wearer of the crown regal, possessor  
Of the feet by all the three worlds adored,  
Churner of the deep sea, having on Your banner  
The [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions") ([Garuḍa](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍa definitions")), that also conveys You, [cloud](/definition/cloud#history "show cloud definitions")-hued.  
Super-eminent among [heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show heaven definitions")’s denizens and so on.

**Note**

The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") longs for the physical presence of the Lord whose resplendent crown proclaims His overlordship of the entire universe. Knowing full well that He can’t be seen unless He deigns to come and present Himself, the Āḻvār’s mind is, all the same, very much agitated, meditating on the various features and aspects of the Lord. The dovetailing of thoughts, as presented in this song, is indeed very interesting. Right from the crown on the Lord’s head proclaiming His sovereignty, the Āḻvār comes down to His lovely pair of feet, fit to be adored by one and all, high and low, good and bad, without distinction. Unto those who adore His feet the Lord gives His whole body, in between, with which He performs many wonderful, breath-taking deeds for their sake. And for those, who are unable to come and worship His feet, He moves about on His unique vehicle, namely winged-bird, Garuḍa, the very embodiment of the [Vedas](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedas definitions") and grants them ‘darśan’. The blue-hued Lord, on His [golden](/definition/gold#history "show golden definitions") mount, the Garuḍa, affords a pleasant and attractive contrast in colours and the whole contour is exhilarating. Garuḍa, holding in his palms the feet of the Lord, proclaims the supremacy of the Lord, setting at naught the [doubts](/definition/doubt#history "show doubts definitions") of the [Vedic](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedic definitions") scholars, confounded by the conflicting texts, some propounding the supremacy of [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions"), the four-headed, some pointing to the supremacy of [Śiva](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śiva definitions"), a third set proclaiming the overlordship of Śrīmān [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions") and so on. These conflicting claims could, no [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), be resolved by a careful [study](/definition/study#history "show study definitions") and Śrīmān Nārāyaṇa’s supremacy established, beyond doubt. But here is Garuḍa, with the Lord mounted on his shoulders and holding in his palms His feet, the sole Refuge of one and all, simplifying ouṛ job and driving home the Lord’s supremacy.


