+++
title = "379 Pasuram 3.9.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

என் ஆவது எத்தனை நாளைக்குப் போதும் புலவீர்காள்,  
மன்னா மனிசரைப் பாடிப் படைக்கும் பெரும் பொருள்?,  
மின் ஆர் மணிமுடி விண்ணவர் தாதையைப் பாடினால்,  
தன்னாகவே கொண்டு சன்மம் செய்யாமையும் கொள்ளுமே.

eṉ āvatu ettaṉai nāḷaikkup pōtum pulavīrkāḷ,  
maṉṉā maṉicaraip pāṭip paṭaikkum perum poruḷ?,  
miṉ ār maṇimuṭi viṇṇavar tātaiyaip pāṭiṉāl,  
taṉṉākavē koṇṭu caṉmam ceyyāmaiyum koḷḷumē.

**English translation of verse 3.9.4:**

Ye, poets, how long can the wealth immense you obtain,  
By [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") the praise of the mortals sustain  
You all? better sing the glory of the Lord Supreme,  
Wearing the crown resplendent set with gems,  
The [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions")’ Sovereign; He will take you unto His fold,  
Besides, you will from further [births](/definition/birth#history "show births definitions") be freed.

**Note**

To the question put by the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") what the Earthly poets would gain by praising the petty humans, the poets say that their patrons do give them gifts, in appreciation of their composition. The Āḻvār, however, questions them again and asks them how long the wealth, they so obtain, will last. As a matter of fact, it takes the scholar quite some time to write out a book or compose a [poem](/definition/poem#history "show poem definitions") in adoration of these mortals and just when he sets out to meet the prospective donor, the shocking news comes of the latter having passed away. Even otherwise, the poets themselves do not live to enjoy the fruits of their [labour](/definition/labour#history "show labour definitions") and if they live long the gifts bestowed on them by the earthly patrons do not last long. Is it not therefore clear that the scholars should shift their base and concentrate on the glory of the Lord of the ‘[Nityā](/definition/nitya#vaishnavism "show Nityā definitions") [Sūris](/definition/suri#history "show Sūris definitions")’ (Eternal Heroes) in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions")? The Lord, the one and only Giver, there being no gift beyond Him. will bestow on the hymnographers the choicest gift of eternal service unto Him and cut out the material body to sustain which they went about praising the frail mortals. The Lord has the unique reputation of elevating the subjects on a par with Him—the great giver with no restraint!


