+++
title = "39 Pasuram 1.3.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நாளும் நின்று அடு நம பழமை அம் கொடுவினை உடனே  
மாளும் ஓர் குறைவு இல்லை; மனன் அகம் மலம் அறக் கழுவி  
நாளும் நம் திரு உடை அடிகள் தம் நலம் கழல் வணங்கி  
மாளும் ஓர் இடத்திலும் வணக்கொடு மாள்வது வலமே.

nāḷum niṉṟu aṭu [nama](/definition/nama#vaishnavism "show nama definitions") paḻamai am koṭuviṉai uṭaṉē  
māḷum ōr kuṟaivu illai; maṉaṉ akam malam aṟak kaḻuvi  
nāḷum nam [tiru](/definition/tiru#history "show tiru definitions") uṭai aṭikaḷ tam nalam kaḻal vaṇaṅki  
māḷum ōr iṭattilum vaṇakkoṭu māḷvatu valamē.

**English translation of verse 1.3.8:**

If we cleanse our minds of the dirt (of misconceived notion of parity among the ‘*[Thiru](/definition/tiru#history "show Thiru definitions")-Murties*’, *[Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions")*, *[Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions")* and *[Śiva](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śiva definitions")*) through that bleaching agent, called wisdom, and worship daily at the felicitous feet of our Lord, the gracious consort of *Tiru (Śrī [Mahālakṣmī](/definition/mahalakshmi#vaishnavism "show Mahālakṣmī definitions")*), all our past sins which had been tormenting us so far will die out at once, and we will be free from wants of any kind. (It is never too late to switch on to the Lord thus.) better repose on His lap, even while dying.

**Notes**

\(i\) To a question supposed to have been put to the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") by his interlocutors, whether their accumulated, age-long sins will not operate as a serious impediment to their [worshipping](/definition/worshipping#history "show worshipping definitions") the Lord, this stanza provides the answer. No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), the [Śāstras](/definition/shastra#vaishnavism "show Śāstras definitions") proclaim.[^1] that one cannot but taste the fruits of one’s actions; in other words, the sins can be liquidated only by the compulsory process of undergoing the prescribed [sufferings](/definition/suffering#history "show sufferings definitions"). That is all right, so far as the potentiality of the reactions of one’s own past [Karma](/definition/karma#vaishnavism "show Karma definitions") goes. But that can be no bar to the operation of the Lord’s mighty grace, full and flooding, washing away all sins the moment one surrenders to Him, in the gracious presence of Mahālakṣmī, the Divine Mother. If past Karma is like the fire that [burns](/definition/burning#history "show burns definitions") out things, the Lord’s grace is like the water that puts out fire.

[^1]:  ‘nābhuktaṃ kṣayate karma’.

\(ii\) Again, assuming that the worldlings further pleaded that time has run out already, and they have very little time left in the present span, the Aḷvār says that it is never too late; even if a decrepit old man dies, leaning forward on bis stick, the Lord will be gracious enough to take it as an act of obeisance to Him. The Aḷvār stresses that it is better to bow unto Him, at least during the last moments of one’s [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), unlike [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions") whose creed was[^2] not to bow unto any one till his [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions"), and even while dying.

[^2]:  ‘na nameyam tu kasyacit’.




