+++
title = "439 Pasuram 4.3.11"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

உய்வு உபாயம் மற்று இன்மை தேறி கண்ணன் ஒண் கழல்கள் மேல்  
செய்ய தாமரைப் பழனத் தென்னன் குருகூர்ச் சடகோபன்,  
பொய் இல் பாடல் ஆயிரத்துள் இவையும் பத்தும் வல்லார்கள்,  
வையம் மன்னி வீற்றிருந்து விண்ணும் ஆள்வர் மண்ணூடே. (2)

uyvu upāyam maṟṟu iṉmai tēṟi kaṇṇaṉ oṇ kaḻalkaḷ mēl  
ceyya tāmaraip paḻaṉat teṉṉaṉ kurukūrc [caṭakōpaṉ](/definition/catakopan#vaishnavism "show caṭakōpaṉ definitions"),  
poy il pāṭal āyirattuḷ ivaiyum pattum vallārkaḷ,  
vaiyam maṉṉi vīṟṟiruntu viṇṇum āḷvar maṇṇūṭē. (2)

**English translation of verse 4.3.11:**

Those well-versed in these songs ten,  
Out of the veracious thousand composed by Caṭakōpaṉ  
Of lovely Teṉ [kurukūr](/definition/kurukur#vaishnavism "show kurukūr definitions"), with lotus ponds and [fields](/definition/field#history "show fields definitions") fertile,  
Adoring the comely feet of Kaṇṇaṉ, for sheer survival,  
Will for long flourish in this abode  
And rule as well, right from here, the [heavenly abode](/definition/heavenly-abode#history "show heavenly abode definitions").

**Notes**

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") spoke about the love that subsists between him and his beloved, the Supreme Lord, in this decad, not because he could talk about it, in any appreciable measure, but for his mere survival.

\(ii\) Even as [Brahma](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahma definitions") assured Sage [Vālmiki](/definition/valmiki#vaishnavism "show Vālmiki definitions"), that not a word in the great Kāvya ([Rāmāyaṇa](/definition/ramayana#vaishnavism "show Rāmāyaṇa definitions")) would be untrue, the Dramiḍa [Veda](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Veda definitions") ([Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")) is of unquestionable veracity.

The truthfulness, claimed for the [Sanskrit](/definition/sanskrit#history "show Sanskrit definitions") [Vedas](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedas definitions"), equally holds good, in respect of the Tamil Veda.

\(iii\) Prior to his being brought into the Śrī [Vaiṣṇava](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇava definitions") fold, the illustrious Preceptor, Nañcīyar (formerly known as Vedānti) was a staunch exponent of Advaita philosophy. Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar conquered Vedānti in a religious disquisition, held at the latter’s home town (Melkōt in [Karnataka](/definition/karnataka#history "show Karnataka definitions") State) and thereafter, Vedānti, turned into the ascetic Nañcīyar, got himself inducted by Bhaṭṭārya into the rapturous realm of the ‘[Divya](/definition/divya#vaishnavism "show Divya definitions") Prabhandas’. Little wonder, an intellectual giant that Nañcīyar was, he soon mastered the four thousand hymns of the [Āḻvārs](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvārs definitions") and imparted special lustre to the commentaries thereon. He longed to Listen to the discourses at the feet of Bhaṭṭārya but the latter passed away at the tender age of 32. Whenever Nañcīyar recited this Song, he suffered the pangs of separation from the Master, all the more.

\(iv\) Verily, the chanters of this decad would be able to grant passport to [heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show heaven definitions"), to the people of their choice, right from here, betokening their sway over heaven.


