+++
title = "495 Pasuram 4.8.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

மணி மாமை குறைவு இல்லா மலர்மாதர் உறை மார்பன்,  
அணி மானத் தட வரைத்தோள் அடல் ஆழித் தடக்கையன்,  
பணி மானம் பிழையாமே அடியேனைப் பணிகொண்ட,  
மணிமாயன் கவராத மட நெஞ்சால் குறைவு இலமே.

[maṇi](/definition/mani#vaishnavism "show maṇi definitions") māmai kuṟaivu illā malarmātar uṟai mārpaṉ,  
aṇi māṉat [taṭa](/definition/tata#history "show taṭa definitions") varaittōḷ aṭal āḻit taṭakkaiyaṉ,  
[paṇi](/definition/pani#history "show paṇi definitions") māṉam piḻaiyāmē aṭiyēṉaip paṇikoṇṭa,  
maṇimāyaṉ kavarāta [maṭa](/definition/mata#history "show maṭa definitions") neñcāl kuṟaivu ilamē.

**English translation of verse 4.8.2:**

Even my docile mind 1 shall discard outright,  
If it attracts not my Lord of sapphire hue,  
Who did in His service enlist this vassal all right,  
Who holds the discus bright in His hand huge,  
Of shoulders, stout and strong, on whose chest  
Resides the lotus-born ([Lakṣmī](/definition/lakshmi#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmī definitions")), of hue exquisite.

**Notes**

\(i\) It was the charming conjunction of the Lord and Lakṣmī of exquisite complexion that attracted the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") and enlisted him as their vassal. And yet, if the Lord is not attracted by his docile mind, of what use is it to him either? Nañcīyar would elucidate this, as follows: There was a time when the Nāyakī’s mind was unto her [lover](/definition/lover#history "show lover definitions") as delectable as high-class sandal paste vide IV-3-1. The Nāyakī’s discarding her mind in the present state is comparable to the frustrated female lover breaking the cosmetic bottle, light in front of her beloved to express her resentment over the latter’s delayed appearance.

\(ii\) Lakṣmī’s complexion is exquisite and of undiminishing charm as she dwells on His winsome chest inseparably, unlike the Āḻvār’s complexion, which suffers for want of such patronage.

\(iii\) The Āḻvār’s service, referred to, in this song, is the ‘*Vācika Kaiṅkarya*’, that is [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") the Lord’s glory in these hymns. The Lord is said to have enlisted the Āḻvār, in His service, *in a punctilious manner*. Here is an instructive anecdote. In the holy monastery of Sri Rāmānuja, the Śrī [Vaiṣṇavas](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show Vaiṣṇavas definitions") used to be fed daily and they were served by Kiṭāmpi-Āccāṉ, a disciple of Śrī Rāmānuja. One of those days, Śrī Rāmānuja noticed Āccāṉ serving drinking water to the guests, standing sideways, a sort of indifference or lack of respect for the guests, Śrī Rāmānuja ran up to him and striking him on the back, burst out: “You dud! don’t you know that you have to serve the guests reverently, by standing in front and facing them?” Without feeling hurt, in the least, Āccāṉ gratefully acknowledged the Master’s correction, administered out of his abundant affection for the disciple and bowed unto him, reciting the appropriate [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") from this song as in the original text.


