+++
title = "508 Pasuram 4.9.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

சாம் ஆறும் கெடும் ஆறும் தமர் உற்றார் தலைத்தலைப்பெய்து,  
ஏமாறிக் கிடந்து அலற்றும் இவை என்ன உலகு இயற்கை?,  
ஆம் ஆறு ஒன்று அறியேன் நான் அரவு அணையாய்! அம்மானே,  
கூமாறே விரைகண்டாய் அடியேனை குறிக்கொண்டே.

cām āṟum keṭum āṟum tamar uṟṟār talaittalaippeytu,  
ēmāṟik kiṭantu alaṟṟum ivai eṉṉa ulaku iyaṟkai?,  
ām āṟu oṉṟu aṟiyēṉ nāṉ aravu aṇaiyāy! ammāṉē,  
kūmāṟē viraikaṇṭāy aṭiyēṉai kuṟikkoṇṭē.

**English translation of verse 4.9.2:**

My Sire, resting on [serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show serpent definitions")-bed, I shudder  
How I can out of this mesh escape unhurt,  
Pray call me quick unto your lovely feet;  
Oh, what a world this is! [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions") befalls all of a sudden  
And people are beset with miseries umpteen,  
Grief-stricken, the near ones do their lots bemoan,  
[Falling](/definition/falling#history "show Falling definitions") on each other, indeed a pathetic scene.

**Notes**

\(i\) The [material world](/definition/material-world#vaishnavism "show material world definitions") taints people to an alarming extent. They plan ahead for a long stay here but death suddenly overtakes them like the thunderbolt. They set much store by their so called possessions, and sink into grief, when they get dispossessed due to loss by fire, theft etc. They are so miserably addicted to lucre as to look upon their dear [money](/definition/money#history "show money definitions") as even more valuable than [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"). They look upon their earthly relations as all-in-all and when they pass away, they cry out their hearts. Apprehending that continued stay in such a world might taint him also, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") lustily pleads with the Lord to arrange for his early exist from this abode. In this land of nescience, the Āḻvār is probably the solitary Soul [crying](/definition/crying#history "show crying definitions") out for such emancipation, and the Āḻvār wants the Lord to take special note of it.

\(ii\) A striking illustration has been given in Īṭu, depicting the worldly men’s morbid love of lucre. A man, accused of treason, had his legs and hands lopped off under the [King](/definition/king#history "show King definitions")’s orders. However, when his friends came to condole with him in his dire misfortune, he took the initiative and asked them to congratulate him, rather than condole with him, for having been let off so lightly without being called upon to part with a portion of his dear money. The compassionate hearts of Saints like [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions") naturally deplore the fate of such men who pin all their faith on lucre, totally oblivious of God.


