+++
title = "519 Introduction to Section 4.10"

+++
The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") expressed his abhorrence of the ways of the world and lustily pleaded with the Lord, in the last decad, that he be removed at once from this infernal land. And yet, the Lord did not take him away but contrived to pacify him by exhibiting to him the heavenly splendour, right here, and to keep him on here. The Lord’s idea in doing so was to propagate, in this confounded world, the true knowledge about God-head, through the Āḻvār’s hymns, *par-excellence*, shorn of [doubts](/definition/doubt#history "show doubts definitions"), discrepancies and deviations. The Āḻvār seems to have taken due note of the Lord’s intentions; he preaches, in this decad, the Supremacy of Śrīmān [Nārāyaṇa](/definition/narayana#vaishnavism "show Nārāyaṇa definitions") ([Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions")) and tries to disabuse the people of their mistaken notions in this regard and wean them away from the propitiation of other deities. Of course, the Āḻvār has already dwelt on the Supremacy of Lord Viṣṇu, in I-1 and II-2, based on His ‘Para’ (transcendent) and ‘[Vibhava](/definition/vibhava#vaishnavism "show Vibhava definitions")’ (incarnate) aspects, respectively. And now, he establishes the Lord’s Supremacy in His ‘[Arca](/definition/arca#history "show Arca definitions")’ (iconic) aspect and, for this purpose, he concentrates on the Lord, enshrined in [Kurukūr](/definition/kurukur#vaishnavism "show Kurukūr definitions") itself, as He bears the name, ‘Ādinātha’, the First Lord or Progenitor and it comes in handy to establish His Supremacy.

The Supreme Lord should obviously be the first cause of all things and beings. Who this One is can, however, be ascertained only from the Scriptures. Even without such a [study](/definition/study#history "show study definitions"), the Lord, in His ‘*Arca*’ ([Idol](/definition/idol#history "show Idol definitions")) Form, compels attention and makes one instinctively cognise Him, as the causeless Cause, the Primordial Lord. Some might say that Brhamā, Viṣṇu and [Śiva](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śiva definitions") are all, on a par, of equal eminence. Some others might hold that there is yet another Power, superior to these three, which should be revered as the Supreme. In stanza 72 of his ‘Peria Tiruvantāti’, the Āḻvār corrects these misconceptions and avers that the lotus stalk which sprouted from the navel of Śrīman Nārāyaṇa (Viṣṇu), tells the true story. From this stalk emerged the four-headed [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions") from whom Śiva, the five-headed, appeared and Śiva, in turn, gave rise to the [six-headed](/definition/six-headed#history "show six-headed definitions") Subramaṇya and so on, resulting in the many heads we see in the world.

In Chāndogya [Upaniṣad](/definition/upanishad#vaishnavism "show Upaniṣad definitions"), the text, ‘*Sadeva Somya idamagra āsīth*’ indicates ‘sat’ as the first Cause. In another Upaniṣad, the first Cause is indicated by the word ‘[Ātmā](/definition/atman#vaishnavism "show Ātmā definitions")’, in the text ‘*[Ātma](/definition/atman#vaishnavism "show Ātma definitions") vā ayameka evāgra āsīth*’, while yet another upaniṣad employs the word ‘Brahmā’ to indicate this, in the text ‘*Brahmā vā idamekamevāgra āsīth*!’ While, in the above texts, the First Cause or the Ordainer of the Universe has been referred to, in such general terms as ‘*sat*’, ‘*Ātmā*’ and ‘*Brahmā*’, the text in Mahopaniṣad pin-points this Supreme Authority as Nārāyaṇa—‘*Ekohavai Nārāyaṇa āsīth na Brahmā neśānaḥ*’, that is, Nārāyaṇa was the only one then, when

[Brahma](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahma definitions"), [Īśāna](/definition/ishana#vaishnavism "show Īśāna definitions") and others were in the unevolved, subtle state. The Lord, Whose Supremacy is thus established only after such a herculean task as delving into the different texts of [Vedāntas](/definition/vedanta#vaishnavism "show Vedāntas definitions"), is, however, easily accessible in Tirunakari (Kurukūr). The Āḻvār, therefore, calls upon people to worship the Lord in His iconic Form, right here, and be redeemed, instead of going adrift, running after lesser deities. Thus, this decad shakes off the stupor of the votaries of the minor deities and exhorts them to concentrate on the Supreme Lord, the one and only God.

There are very many persons, in this world, who are quite conversant with the scriptural texts in all their ramifications and yet, do not have a clear conviction as to who exactly is the Supreme Lord to whom they should owe undivided allegiance. These people, therefore, waver and bow unto a number of deities. The followers of Śrī [Rāmānujācārya](/definition/ramanujacarya#vaishnavism "show Rāmānujācārya definitions"), however, stand out in dire contrast to these so-called learned men, and have unflinching faith in the Supremacy of Viṣṇu (Śrīman Nārāyaṇa), although they may not have any academic [learning](/definition/learning#history "show learning definitions"), as such, to their credit. This is, of course, due to the grace galore of Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions") in bequeathing this decad to posterity, as Empār would put it. An illustration of this robust faith is given below.

[Tripura](/definition/tripura#vaishnavism "show Tripura definitions") [Devi](/definition/devi#vaishnavism "show Devi definitions"), the wife of [Rājā](/definition/raja#history "show Rājā definitions") Akaḷāṅkanāṭṭāḻvāṉ, in the holy fold of Śrī Rāmānuja’s faith, would not worship the [idols](/definition/idol#history "show idols definitions") of the minor Gods, although she was not quite literate. When asked to quote the authority supporting her conviction, the [queen](/definition/queen#history "show queen definitions") replied: “I know no authority other than the dictates of Śrī Rāmānuja, my Saviour. Should he command me so I would certainly worship even the deity guarding the north-east (Īśānya) point of the Compass, where our waste-water pots are kept”.


