+++
title = "521 Pasuram 4.10.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நாடி நீர் வணங்கும் தெய்வமும் உம்மையும் முன்படைத்தான்,  
வீடு இல் சீர்ப்புகழ் ஆதிப்பிரான் அவன் மேவி உறைகோயில்,  
மாட மாளிகை சூழ்ந்து அழகு ஆய திருக்குருகூர் அதனைப்  
பாடி ஆடி பரவிச் செல்மின்கள் பல் உலகீர்! பரந்தே.

nāṭi nīr vaṇaṅkum teyvamum ummaiyum muṉpaṭaittāṉ,  
vīṭu il cīrppukaḻ ātippirāṉ avaṉ mēvi uṟaikōyil,  
[māṭa](/definition/mata#history "show māṭa definitions") māḷikai cūḻntu aḻaku āya tirukkurukūr ataṉaip  
[pāṭi](/definition/pati#vaishnavism "show pāṭi definitions") āṭi paravic celmiṉkaḷ pal ulakīr! parantē.

**English translation of verse 4.10.2:**

Ye, men of this diverse world, move about all over,  
[Dancing](/definition/dancing#history "show Dancing definitions") and [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") the praise of lovely [Kurukūr](/definition/kurukur#vaishnavism "show Kurukūr definitions"),  
By stately mansions surrounded, where lovingly resides  
Lord ‘Ātippirāṉ’ of traits, auspicious and abiding,  
Who created both you and the deities you revere.

**Notes**

\(i\) In this song, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") exhorts the people of all sorts to converge into Tirunakari (Kurukūr) from different directions in great jubilation, dancing and singing the praise of that pilgrim centre, even as people congregate in a festive mood at [Srirangam](/definition/shrirangam#vaishnavism "show Srirangam definitions") during the ‘big festival’ (Paṅkuṉi uttaram [celebrations](/definition/celebration#history "show celebrations definitions")). The emphasis has now shifted from the Lord to the pilgrim centre where He lovingly resides and even the different routes leading thereto. The Lord loves the pilgrim centres on Earth even better than His stay in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"), where His heart always [pines](/definition/pine#history "show pines definitions") for the teeming millions of His straying subjects down below. Such an attitude is His crowning trait and it does not alter the fact that Heaven is a land of unalloyed bliss. In the midst of all that bliss. His heart leaps towards the weaker sections elsewhere, because of His tender solicitude.

\(ii\) It is Lord [Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions"), the Supreme, that ushered in all the subjects, classified under different denominations and so, [worshipping](/definition/worshipping#history "show worshipping definitions") the lesser deities amounts to the worship of one section of the Lord’s subjects, by another. The Āḻvār deprecates the men of this world running after these deities, searching for them, instead of searching for the Supreme Lord, as enjoined by the Scriptures, ‘*Sonveṣṭavyaḥ*’.

\(iii\) The Universal Father is the only Lord and all the others are His vassals. Whoever arrogate to themselves independence are veritable thieves. The lesser gods also are such thieves in as much as they gulp down the sacrificial [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions") which should legitimately go to the Lord and when the sacrificers seek them with [prayers](/definition/prayer#history "show prayers definitions") for boons, they run away like thieves. These gods only rob from the sacrificers what is God’s own and they have nothing which they can call their own and grant.


