+++
title = "526 Pasuram 4.10.7"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஓடி ஓடி பல பிறப்பும் பிறந்து மற்று ஓர் தெய்வம்,  
பாடி ஆடிப் பணிந்து பல்படிகால் வழி ஏறிக் கண்டீர்,  
கூடி வானவர் ஏத்த நின்ற திருக்குருகூர் அதனுள்,  
ஆடு புள் கொடி ஆதி மூர்த்திக்கு அடிமைபுகுவதுவே

ōṭi ōṭi [pala](/definition/pala#history "show pala definitions") piṟappum piṟantu maṟṟu ōr teyvam,  
[pāṭi](/definition/pati#vaishnavism "show pāṭi definitions") āṭip paṇintu palpaṭikāl [vaḻi](/definition/vali#vaishnavism "show vaḻi definitions") ēṟik kaṇṭīr,  
[kūṭi](/definition/kuti#history "show kūṭi definitions") vāṉavar ētta niṉṟa tirukkurukūr ataṉuḷ,  
āṭu puḷ [koṭi](/definition/koti#history "show koṭi definitions") āti mūrttikku aṭimaipukuvatuvē

**English translation of verse 4.10.7:**

Serve you did for ages and in many ways,  
The lesser gods, passing [thro](/definition/thro#history "show thro definitions")’ several gates of [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions"),  
Well have you seen the extent of their so-called grace;  
Better seek refuge at the feet of Lord Ātināta,  
With the [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions") ([Garuḍa](/definition/garuda#vaishnavism "show Garuḍa definitions")) on His banner, enshrined in [Kurukūr](/definition/kurukur#vaishnavism "show Kurukūr definitions"),  
For [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions"), in their strength, to come and revere.

**Notes**

\(i\) The text, “brahmāṇaṃ śitikaṇṭañ ca yās cānyā devatāḥ smṛtāḥ, pratibuddhā na sevante yasmāt parimitaṃ phalam” says that knowledgeable persons do not worship [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions"), [Śiva](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śiva definitions") and other lesser deities, as the benefits derived thereby are much-too-slender and limited. The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), therefore, exhorts people to seek refuge in Lord Ātinātha, in lovely Kurukūr. The very fact that these people have been [worshipping](/definition/worshipping#history "show worshipping definitions") the god-lings in myriads of ways through countless [births](/definition/birth#history "show births definitions") and have still not been able to get rid of the dreadful cycle of birth and rebirth, shows that these deities could do precious little for their emancipation. What is even more noteworthy is that those very deities throng round the Lord, enshrined in Kurukūr and sing His praise to their hearts’ content.

\(ii\) Actually, these deities derive all their power from Lord [Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions"), the Supreme Lord, see also 1-1-5; again, in spite of their internal bickerings, these deities join together in the face of a common danger and propitiate the Lord, in a body. The Āḻvār, therefore, advises his addressees to seek refuge at the Lord’s feet with immovable faith. In his scintillating commentary, Nam-piḷlai cites, as examples of such robust faith, [king](/definition/king#history "show king definitions") Ambarīṣa and Saint [Tirumaḻicai](/definition/tirumalicai#vaishnavism "show Tirumaḻicai definitions") Āḻvār.

In order to test Ambarīṣa’s steadfastness the Lord appeared before the King, disguised as [Indra](/definition/indra#vaishnavism "show Indra definitions"), mounted on [Airāvata](/definition/airavata#vaishnavism "show Airāvata definitions"), the white [elephant](/definition/elephant#history "show elephant definitions") (which again was but Garuḍa, the Lord’s mount, in disguise) and offered to grant him boons.

Pat came the King’s admonition, as follows:

> “Who are you and what is this > [insect](/definition/insect#history "show insect definitions") you > have brought with you? Don’t you know that I am votary of Lord viṣṇu > from whom all of you derive your position and authority. Surely, I am > not the one who would pay homage to strollers like you, passing along > the [streets](/definition/street#history "show streets definitions"). > May it please you to depart from here”.

Saint Tirumaḻicai Āḻvār (BC 4202) was sitting with his legs stretched, stitching his torn-out garments, when Śiva and [Pārvati](/definition/parvati#vaishnavism "show Pārvati definitions") passed by. The Āḻvār’s nonchalance, unmindful of the presence of the exalted couple, provoked Pārvati and, at her insistence, an indignant Śiva demanded the Āḻvār’s explanation for his disrespectful behaviour. Calm and unruffled, the Āḻvār queried whether the distinguished visitor could grant him [salvation](/definition/salvation#history "show salvation definitions") ([mokṣa](/definition/moksha#vaishnavism "show mokṣa definitions")) but the latter said, “No, it is beyond my jurisdiction; it can be attained only by resorting to Viṣṇu”. The considerate Āḻvār, thereupon asked Śiva whether he could postpone the [death](/definition/death#history "show death definitions") of creatures, at least by a day. On his betraying his helplessness once again, the Āḻvār jeeringly asked the visitor to decree that the thread, the former was holding, did follow the needle as he was [sewing](/definition/sewing#history "show sewing definitions"). Unable to brook this insult, Śiva opened up the third eye on his forehead but the Saint overpowered it by pointing to the innumerable such eyes in his leg.

\(iii\) There is yet another anecdote, cited in Īṭu commentary, to illustrate the certainty of salvation through oneness of faith in the Supreme Lord.

When Śrī [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar was once reading that portion of Viṣṇu [Purāṇa](/definition/purana#vaishnavism "show Purāṇa definitions"), [dealing](/definition/dealing#history "show dealing definitions") with the [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") of the meritorious King [Yayāti](/definition/yayati#vaishnavism "show Yayāti definitions") whom Indra conspired to pull down apprehensive of the usurpation of his own position, two of the listeners, Piḻḷai Viḻupparaiyar and Appāṉ Tiruvaḷuntur Araiyar asked the learned discourser about the chief lesson to be learnt from the life-story of king Yayāti. Bhaṭṭarya elucidated: “Here is the lesson; the lesser gods, when propitiated, grant men their desires, but, side by side, envy rankles in the hearts of the former over the latter’s mounting stature and they seek an opportunity to pull the votaries down, to prevent their drawing level with those very gods. On the other hand, Lord Viṣṇu looks upon His creatures’ happiness as His own and He can never be swayed by such base passions as the lesser gods. One should not, therefore, resort to lesser gods but place all one’s faith in the Supreme Lord”.

\(iv\) Bhaṭṭārya also cited the example of Lord [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") and [Lakṣmaṇa](/definition/lakshmana#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmaṇa definitions") serving Sage [Viśvāmitra](/definition/vishvamitra#history "show Viśvāmitra definitions") as his humble [servants](/definition/servant#history "show servants definitions"). On being questioned at this stage how the Yādhavas came to grief, in spite of their close association with Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions"), Bhattārya pointed out that the Yādhavas had to share the fate they did, because of their irreclaimable ways, although Lord Kṛṣṇa did His very best for them, such as bringing from [Kubera](/definition/kubera#vaishnavism "show Kubera definitions"), the God of wealth, Treasures such as ‘[Śaṅka](/definition/shanka#vaishnavism "show Śaṅka definitions") [nidhi](/definition/nidhi#history "show nidhi definitions")’ and ‘[Padma nidhi](/definition/padmanidhi#history "show Padma nidhi definitions")’. Further, they looked upon Kṛṣṇa, not as God but as a mere kinsman, companion and so on, an ephemeral passing relationship which automatically lapsed at the end of their lives.


