+++
title = "586 Introduction to Section 5.6"

+++
The Mother finds Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī, [seated](/definition/seat#history "show seated definitions") like a discourser, with the fingers in an instructional [pose](/definition/pose#history "show pose definitions") and declaring that it is she that created the whole world, that she would become the world herself and so on. The bewildered mother, when queried by her kinsmen says that the Nāyakī is perhaps possessed by the Supreme Lord who is the Inner Self of all beings. Every song in this decad is in two distinct parts, namely, the narration of the Nāyakī’s God-vision (man identified with God), followed by the Mother's suggestion that it is perhaps God who has taken possession of the Nāyakī, that speaks through her. There is of course, a parallel for this kind of behaviour of the Nāyakī in Śrī [Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions") [Purāṇa](/definition/purana#vaishnavism "show Purāṇa definitions"), V-13-23. In the midst of that rapturous balldance, the classical ‘[Rāsakrīḍā](/definition/rasakrida#history "show Rāsakrīḍā definitions")’, Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") suddenly withdrew Himself from the [Gopīs](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopīs definitions") of Vṛndāvan, who were literally bursting with joy in the [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions") of the Divine cowherd boy, who danced in between every two girls, assuming ubiquity to the extent needed. The Lord’s sudden disappearance was motivated by His desire to stabilise the Gopīs’ God-enjoyment, which was at its highest ebb at that crucial moment, much beyond their capacity to bear. Some time later, He appeared in their midst back again, assuming afar more enchanting Form than before, as if to make amends for the pangs of separation inflicted on them. But what happened to the Gopīs during this interval? They were sunk deep in dejection, expressed by them in immortal songs, known as ‘[Gopikā](/definition/gopika#vaishnavism "show Gopikā definitions")-[Gītā](/definition/gita#vaishnavism "show Gītā definitions")’, Some of the Gopīs also resorted to the technique of impersonation of Śrī Kṛṣṇa, so as to sustain themselves, as brought out in the [Śloka](/definition/sloka#vaishnavism "show Śloka definitions") of Śrī Viṣṇu Purāṇa, referred to above. There was a [Gopī](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopī definitions") claiming to be none other than Kṛṣṇa and calling upon her mates to verify the truth of her statement from her gait.

Another asserted that she was Kṛṣṇa and started playing on the flute; yet another, posing as Kṛṣṇa, addressed a Gopī as:

> “You, deadly snake, stay, or I will kill you”.

That other Gopī deigned to play the role of Kāliyaṉ, the snake, so that she could be smeared with the dust from the feet of Kṛṣṇa (the Gopī simulating Kṛṣṇa). With appropriate gesticulations and a great deal of gusto, a Gopī feigning as Kṛṣṇa, performed [feats](/definition/feat#history "show feats definitions") such as holding Mount Govardhan aloft, slaying of Dhenukāsura and so on. By such means, these [Gopis](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopis definitions") managed to sustain themselves without succumbing to the pangs of separation from Śrī Kṛṣṇa. There is also the example set by Śrī [Āṇṭāḷ](/definition/antal#vaishnavism "show Āṇṭāḷ definitions") through her immortal “Tiruppāvai”, the daughter of a high class [Brahmin](/definition/brahmin#history "show Brahmin definitions") (Viṣṇucitta) adopting, by inclination, the pastoral [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") of the shepherds and becoming one of them. This provides, therefore, the key to this decad.


