+++
title = "642 Pasuram 5.10.4"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கள்ள வேடத்தைக் கொண்டு போய் புரம்புக்க ஆறும் கலந்து அசுரரை-  
உள்ளம் பேதம் செய்திட்டு உயிர் உண்ட உபாயங்களும்  
வெள்ள நீர்ச் சடையானும் நின்னிடை வேறு அலாமை விளங்க நின்றதும்  
உள்ளம் உள் குடைந்து என் உயிரை உருக்கி உண்ணுமே.

kaḷḷa vēṭattaik koṇṭu pōy purampukka āṟum kalantu acurarai-  
uḷḷam pētam ceytiṭṭu uyir uṇṭa upāyaṅkaḷum  
veḷḷa nīrc caṭaiyāṉum niṉṉiṭai vēṟu alāmai viḷaṅka niṉṟatum  
uḷḷam uḷ kuṭaintu eṉ uyirai urukki uṇṇumē.

**English translation of verse 5.10.4:**

The form dubious You assumed (as [Buddha](/definition/buddha#history "show Buddha definitions")) oh Lord!  
And entry into the citadels three manoeuvred.  
Mingling freely with the Asuras, their outlook You altered  
And got them annihilated; ([Śiva](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śiva definitions")), with Gangā on matted locks  
In close unison with You, I behold and in my mind locked  
Are all these, making my soul just melt down.

#### Notes

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") characterises the advent of Buddha as a mask put on by Lord [Viṣṇu](/definition/vishnu#vaishnavism "show Viṣṇu definitions"), in order to sow the seeds of [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), dissension and heresy among the Asuras (who were very powerful, by dint of their rigorous rituals, but most unscrupulous and destructive), with a view to reducing their prowess and strength and getting them annihilated thereby. The story of Buddha, as recorded in the third [Aṃśa](/definition/amsha#vaishnavism "show Aṃśa definitions") of Śrī Viṣṇu [Purāṇa](/definition/purana#vaishnavism "show Purāṇa definitions"), is as follows:

Once upon a time, the Asuras invoked Śiva by their rigorous austerities and when he appeared before them and enquired of them what they wished to have, they asked for three cities, invulnerable to attack from any source. While granting their wish, Śiva warned that the cities should always move in the air without touching each other and if ever they chanced to collide, great misfortune would befall them. The three cities, one made of iron, another of [silver](/definition/silver#history "show silver definitions") and the third of [gold](/definition/gold#history "show gold definitions"), came into existence forthwith. Living in these [flying](/definition/flying#history "show flying definitions") citadels, the demons waged war against the [Devas](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devas definitions") and the [Brahmins](/definition/brahmin#history "show Brahmins definitions") who offered libations to the latter. Deprived of the sacrificial offerings from the Brahmins, the strength of the Devas dwindled and they fell an easy [prey](/definition/prey#history "show prey definitions") to the Asuras. When requested by the Devas to destroy the Asuras who posted themselves with their flying citadels at all places where sacrifices were performed, molested and slew the performers, Śiva declined to fell the three, he himself had planted, even if it be poisonous. Thereafter, the Devas went with their tale of woe to Viṣṇu, resting on the Milky ocean and begged of Him to destroy the demons. Queried by the Lord whether the Devas and the Brahmins could not, with their combined might, destroy the demons, the Devas clarified that the Asuras were invincible because they too performed rites and rituals and sacrifices and gained strength, all the time.

Assuring the Devas that He would destroy the demons, the Lord proceeded to the cities of the demons, disguised as an aged Buddha (wise man), carrying a book under his arm and wearing a twisted [Kuśā](/definition/kusha#vaishnavism "show Kuśā definitions") grass round his finger, ring-like. He preached to them morals in a telling manner, and they had nc hesitation in adopting Him as their mentor (wise counsellor). When they began performing some [Yāga](/definition/yaga#history "show Yāga definitions") (ceremonies), Buddha accosted them: “What are these sticks for?” Pat came the reply, “For offering into the fire”, evoking the [observation](/definition/observation#history "show observation definitions") from Buddha that it was better to be born a grass-eating cow than a stick-eating fire. Likewise, Buddha enquired the purpose for which huge stocks of [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions") had been kept in the venue of the Yāga. When He was told that it was all meant to be offered to the Gods, He spoke derisively that it would be nice to do so if they could satisfy the hunger of a traveller by feeding some one at home. Buddha asked next why the goats were kept there and elicited the reply that the omentum extracted from the [animals](/definition/animal#history "show animals definitions") would be offered to the Gods. Buddha remarked, “Oh, ḷ see, butchers seem to be the righteous people then!” By means of such preachings, Buddha succeeded in cajoling the demons and with their faith in the sacrifices and their efficacy shaken, they gave them up altogether. They even began to revile Śiva, their great benefactor, and this reached his ears through Buddha. The irate Śiva resolved to destroy the ungrateful demons. In the battle that ensued, the Earth became the chariot, the sun and Moon, its wheels, the four [vedas](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show vedas definitions") were the [horses](/definition/horse#history "show horses definitions"), [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions"), the charioteer, [Mahā](/definition/maha#history "show Mahā definitions")-[Meru](/definition/meru#history "show Meru definitions"), the mountain was used as the bow and Ādiśeṣa, the bow-string. Thus equipped, the vile demons were exterminated by Śiva. The old order of things was restored whereby the Devas and the Brahmins could live in peace, the latter providing the former with their usual sacrificial offerings.

The authoritative texts ([Mahā Bhārata](/definition/mahabharata#vaishnavism "show Mahā Bhārata definitions"), [Karṇa](/definition/karna#vaishnavism "show Karṇa definitions") parva) declare ‘Viṣṇurātmā Bhagavato bhavasyāmita tejasaḥ’ and true to this, Śiva could conquer the demons only through Lord Viṣṇu, his Internal Controller. This is precisely what the Āḻvār intends to convey when he refers to Śiva standing in close unison with the Lord. This Buddha should not, however, be confounded with [Śāṅkhya](/definition/samkhya#vaishnavism "show Śāṅkhya definitions") [Muni](/definition/muni#vaishnavism "show Muni definitions") ([Gautama](/definition/gautama#vaishnavism "show Gautama definitions")), born about 2,500 years ago.

\(ii\) Read also the arguments, Sage Jābāli advanced in [Rāmāyaṇa](/definition/ramayana#vaishnavism "show Rāmāyaṇa definitions") (11-108), to induce [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") to get back to the Kingdom, giving up the exile imposed on Him by His father. Śrī [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") had, however, no hesitation in castigating the sage for his specious advice, wide apart from [Dharma](/definition/dharma#vaishnavism "show Dharma definitions"), about which Śrī Rāma had a very clear conception.

\(iii\) The accord of Śiva with Viṣṇu, referred to here, denotes the intimate relationship between the two, as Body and Soul respectively, the latter being the ‘Antarātmā’ or the Inner Soul of the former. It is worth recalling, in this connection, the dialogue between Kūratāḻvāṉ and [king](/definition/king#history "show king definitions") Krimikaṇṭa [cōla](/definition/cola#history "show cōla definitions") in the Royal Court. When the king insisted that Kūratāḻvāṉ should subscribe to the bull that Śiva is the Supreme Truth, Āḻvāṉ pointed out, quoting chapter and verse, that Śiva derived all the power he had only from the Paramount Lord of the Cosmos, Viṣṇu. Āḻvāṉ would not [sign](/definition/sign#history "show sign definitions") the order, as commanded by the King and chose to submit himself to the inquisitorial [torture](/definition/torture#history "show torture definitions") of the bigoted king. (“Blessed are they that suffer persecution for the sake of justice, for theirs is the Kingdom of [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions")”.—*Bible*)


