+++
title = "644 Pasuram 5.10.6"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நின்ற ஆறும் இருந்த ஆறும்/ கிடந்த ஆறும் நினைப்பு அரியன  
ஒன்று அலா உருவு ஆய் அருவு ஆய நின் மாயங்கள்  
நின்று நின்று நினைக்கின்றேன் உன்னை எங்ஙனம் நினைகிற்பன் பாவியேற்கு-  
ஒன்று நன்கு உரையாய் உலகம் உண்ட ஒண் சுடரே!

niṉṟa āṟum irunta āṟum/ kiṭanta āṟum niṉaippu ariyaṉa  
oṉṟu alā uruvu āy aruvu āya niṉ māyaṅkaḷ  
niṉṟu niṉṟu niṉaikkiṉṟēṉ uṉṉai eṅṅaṉam niṉaikiṟpaṉ pāviyēṟku-  
oṉṟu naṉku uraiyāy ulakam uṇṭa oṇ cuṭarē!

**English translation of verse 5.10.6:**

#### Translation

The manner in which You stood in one place, sat in another. And reposed in yet another, these and several other  
Wonders indefinable are indeed beyond my mind’s reach,  
Ponder do I over them little by little; You, I beseech,  
Oh, resplendent Lord, Who the worlds once gulped down,  
To grant this sinner, strength to meditate without wearing down

#### Note

\(i\) The places where the Lord stood, sat and reposed, not having been specified in this Song, the [Ācāryas](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācāryas definitions") take delight in interpreting this in a number of ways, as elucidated below:

> I Standing >
> (*Incarnate Forms*) >
> [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions") > *standing* at the entrance to > [Laṅka](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅka definitions") with > bow in hand;  
> The victorious > [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") > *standing* with bow in hand after slaying > [Vāli](/definition/vali#vaishnavism "show Vāli definitions");  
> Śrī [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") > *standing*, holding mount Govardhan aloft;  
> Śrī Kṛṣṇa *standing* inside the cradle, holding on to the side-rods; >
> (*Iconic Form*) >
> Standing >
> In Mount *Tiruveṅkaṭam. > [Ūrakam](/definition/urakam#vaishnavism "show Ūrakam definitions"), > Śrī Vaikuṇṭa [Vaikunṭam]* etc. >
> II\. Sitting >
> (*Incarnate Forms*) >
> Śrī Rāma *sitting* in *citrakūṭ* and other places; Śrī Kṛṣṇa *sitting* > in the cradle, unable to stand any longer. >
> (*Transcendent Form*) >
> *Sitting* in the High > [Heavens](/definition/heaven#history "show Heavens definitions") on > the > [Serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show Serpent definitions")-Couch. >
> (*Iconic Form*) >
> Sitting in > *[Pāṭakaṃ](/definition/pataka#history "show Pāṭakaṃ definitions"), > [Varakuṇamaṅkai](/definition/varakunamankai#vaishnavism "show Varakuṇamaṅkai definitions")* > etc.; >
> III\. Reposing >
> \(i\) *Incarnate Forms* >
> Śrī Rāma. *reposing*, in front of the ocean;  
> Śrī Kṛṣṇa *reposing* on the laps of the > [Gopīs](/definition/gopi#vaishnavism "show Gopīs definitions"), just > before the commencement of > [Rāsakrīḍā](/definition/rasakrida#history "show Rāsakrīḍā definitions");  
> Śrī Kṛṣṇa reposing in the cradle, as a tender Babe, >
> \(ii\) *Vyūḥa* >
> The Lord *reposing* in the Milky-ocean. in > [Yoga](/definition/yoga#vaishnavism "show Yoga definitions") Niddhrā; >
> \(iii\) *Iconic Form* >
> *Reposing* in *Tiruvekkā, > [Puḷiṅkuṭi](/definition/pulinkuti#vaishnavism "show Puḷiṅkuṭi definitions"), > Tirukkuṭanta. > [Śrīraṅgaṃ](/definition/shriranga#history "show Śrīraṅgaṃ definitions")-Anantaśayanam* > etc.

\(ii\) Although the Incarnations took place long ago, it should still be possible to meditate on them even at this distance of time. But the wondrous deeds of the Lord are too numerous to be narrated, with any degree of cogency and precision and, in the case of the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions"), he is unable to [study](/definition/study#history "show study definitions") himself and recount them without wearing down. And hence, the [prayer](/definition/prayer#history "show prayer definitions"), as in this song.

\(iii\) The Lord’s wondrous deeds and the different postures assumed by Him at various centres, have been mentioned here by the Āḻvār, only to stress His gracious response to the devotees who give their hearts to Him. It would, therefore, be relevant to cite the following anecdote to illustrate the manner and extent of the Lord’s approach to us, when we will but take one step towards Him.

A certain devotee, proficient in [singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions"), came all the way to [Śrīraṅgam](/definition/shrirangam#vaishnavism "show Śrīraṅgam definitions") from the far north, longing to worship Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions"). When he went to the [temple](/definition/temple#history "show temple definitions"), it was the concluding day of a certain festival. Āḻvār Tiruvaraṅkapperumāḷ Araiyar, the Temple Bard, chanted a hymn of [Tonṭaraṭippoṭi](/definition/tontaratippoti#vaishnavism "show Tonṭaraṭippoṭi definitions") Āḻvār before Lord Raṅganātha with great feeling and literally coaxed the Lord's pleasure. The Lord was highly pleased with His Minstrel and seemed readily inclined to do the latter’s bidding. At this [ripe](/definition/ripe#history "show ripe definitions") moment, the Araiyar introduced the devout visitor from the North, who had covered, on foot, more than two thousand miles, and prayed for the Lord’s condescension to honour the visitor with a special recognition of his great devotion unto Him. The Lord immediately responded by walking four paces of a rod length each (uyyāra naṭai) in the hands of His holy bearers, from the laurel [tree](/definition/tree#history "show tree definitions") in the cloisters of the temple. Addressing the Holy choir, the Lord enquired: “Come, Ye, holy chanters, tell us whether what we have done is adequate to the [pains](/definition/pain#history "show pains definitions") taken by this northern supplicant of ours”. Here then is the tradition highlighting the truth that, when man ascends to the God’s [foot-stool](/definition/foot-stool#history "show foot-stool definitions"), God descends to the soul of man.


