+++
title = "671 Pasuram 6.2.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கழறேல் நம்பீ! உன் கைதவம் மண்ணும் விண்ணும் நன்கு அறியும் திண் சக்கர-  
நிழறு தொல் படையாய்! உனக்கு ஒன்று உணர்த்துவன் நான்  
மழறு தேன் மொழியார்கள் நின் அருள் சூடுவார் மனம் வாடி நிற்க எம்-  
குழறு பூவையொடும் கிளியோடும் குழகேலே.

kaḻaṟēl nampī! uṉ kaitavam maṇṇum viṇṇum naṉku aṟiyum tiṇ cakkara-  
niḻaṟu tol paṭaiyāy! uṉakku oṉṟu uṇarttuvaṉ nāṉ  
maḻaṟu tēṉ moḻiyārkaḷ niṉ aruḷ cūṭuvār maṉam [vāṭi](/definition/vati#history "show vāṭi definitions") niṟka em-  
kuḻaṟu pūvaiyoṭum kiḷiyōṭum kuḻakēlē.

**English translation of verse 6.2.5:**

Oh, Sire, address not unto us such shallow words,  
Your viles are well-known, in all the worlds,  
You, wielder of the ancient discus, mighty and mobile!  
Let me make You realise that desist You shall  
From playing with the warbling Pūvai and [parrots](/definition/parrot#history "show parrots definitions") over here Lest  
You should the minds of Your sweet-tongued favourites injure.

#### Note

The Lord suggests that they should seek arbitration to prove that He is the damned liar, they are dubbing Him to be. The Nāyakī, however, [rules](/definition/rules#history "show rules definitions") out the necessity for such a course for His stratagems are too well known, both on Earth and in [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions"). Did He not take advantage of the screen raised by the smoke from the [incense](/definition/incense#history "show incense definitions") [burnt](/definition/burning#history "show burnt definitions") by the denizens in Heaven just after His sacramental bath and come down here as [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") and go back to the celestium, a hundred years after, by which time the smoke subsided? The Lord’s holy attendants in Heaven were not aware of His departure during the interval. Again, all that He did as Śrī Kṛṣṇa is history indeed! And yet, the Lord insists that a wise and impartial witness should be called upon to sit in judgement. The Nāyakī rejoins that there is no dearth of witnesses and, for the matter of that, the discus in His hand is enough to knock the bottom of His case. Did He not once say that He would not take up arms in the battle of [Mahābhārata](/definition/mahabharata#vaishnavism "show Mahābhārata definitions") and eventually go back on His plighted word? Cornered thus, the Lord kept silent, [hanging](/definition/hanging#history "show hanging definitions") His head down. Thereupon, the Nāyakī advised Him to listen to her, in case He was keen on finding a way out of this impasse. The Omniscient Lord was being advised and yet, He took it all in good parts and started praising the Nāyakī’s speech as honey and so on. The Nāyakī took exception to this and she and her mates withdrew after making the sarcastic [observation](/definition/observation#history "show observation definitions") that the sweet-tongued damsels in His good books, were elsewhere. Even then, the Lord wouldn’t leave the place and started caressing the Pūvai, the little warbler, and the parrots there. Seeing this from a distance, the Nāyakī warned that He would certainly prejudice those other ladies, the lucky recipients of His grace, by going over here and, on the top of that, fondling the birds living at this end. The Nāyakī, therefore, advised Him to hasten to those ladies.


