+++
title = "680 Pasuram 6.3.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

நல்குரவும் செல்வும் நரகும் சுவர்க்கமும் ஆய்  
வெல்பகையும் நட்பும் விடமும் அமுதமும் ஆய்  
பல்வகையும் பரந்த பெருமான் என்னை ஆள்வானை  
செல்வம் மல்குகுடித் திருவிண்ணகர்க் கண்டேனே. (2)

nalkuravum celvum narakum cuvarkkamum āy  
velpakaiyum naṭpum viṭamum amutamum āy  
palvakaiyum paranta perumāṉ eṉṉai āḷvāṉai  
celvam malkukuṭit tiruviṇṇakark kaṇṭēṉē. (2)

**English translation of verse 6.3.1:**

Seen have I in Tiruviṇṇakar, with riches [filled](/definition/filling#history "show filled definitions"),  
My Liege-Lord, Who does encompass in His universe vast.  
Pelf and penury, [hell](/definition/hell#history "show hell definitions") and [Svarga](/definition/svarga#vaishnavism "show Svarga definitions"), love and hatred,  
Poison and nectar and many such opposites.

#### Notes

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") says that he has seen in Tiruviṇṇakar, the the Lord who composes within Himself all the incompatibles. It is He who kept kucela poor initially, then made him [rich](/definition/rich#history "show rich definitions") and again pushed him into penury. It is He that puts some people in the luxurious and delightful Svarga and consigns some others to the dismal hell; He engenders in us hatred as well as love for Him, the one who hates Him is made to love Him and vice versa. For example, the inveterate Kanṭā-[karṇa](/definition/karna#vaishnavism "show karṇa definitions") became friendly to the Lord whereas Śīmālika who was an intimate friend of His, got his head severed by the Lord’s discus. It is the Lord who gave [Śiva](/definition/shiva#vaishnavism "show Śiva definitions") poison and nectar to the [Devās](/definition/deva#vaishnavism "show Devās definitions"); He is like poison unto some and like nectar unto others. Actually, those that look upon everything as forming part of the Lord’s immense possessions, vast and varied, will acquire perfect mental equanimity, making no distinction between these opposite pairs, neither elated by the one nor depressed by the other.

\(ii\) The Lord, enshrined in this pilgrim centre (Tiruviṇṇakar), is called by the Āḻvār as ‘Oppili Appaṉ’, the peerless Sire, vide the ninth-song, while the Purāṇik tradition carries the Lord’s name as “*Uppili Appaṉ*”, *salt-free* dishes being offered to Him during the diurnal worship.


