+++
title = "681 Pasuram 6.3.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கண்ட இன்பம் துன்பம் கலக்கங்களும் தேற்றமும் ஆய்  
தண்டமும் தண்மையும் தழலும் நிழலும் ஆய்  
கண்டுகோடற்கு அரிய பெருமான் என்னை ஆள்வான் ஊர்  
தெண் திரைப் புனல்சூழ் திருவிண்ணகர் நல் நகரே

kaṇṭa iṉpam tuṉpam kalakkaṅkaḷum tēṟṟamum āy  
taṇṭamum taṇmaiyum taḻalum niḻalum āy  
kaṇṭukōṭaṟku [ariya](/definition/ariya#history "show ariya definitions") perumāṉ eṉṉai āḷvāṉ ūr  
teṇ tiraip puṉalcūḻ tiruviṇṇakar nal nakarē

**English translation of verse 6.3.2:**

Tiruviṇṇakar, the lovely city the limpid waters surround,  
Is where my Lord stays, whose possessions vast none can comprehend;  
He is at once pleasure and [pain](/definition/pain#history "show pain definitions"), one sees around,  
Clarity and confusion, fury and favour, blistering heat and cool shade.

#### Note

This is just a follow-up of the theme mooted in the preceding song, the blending in Him of the opposites. Sensual pleasures, hankered after by many, are studiously eschewed by those blessed by Him, as a serious impediment in the way of attaining Him. Again, there are the book-worms, who despite their immense reading do not have clear ideas, [suffering](/definition/suffering#history "show suffering definitions") as they do from lack of proper assimilation and the Lord’s grace which helps such assimilation. The unlettered score easily over the so-called scholars and, by the grace of their Preceptors, enjoy absolute clarity of thought and understanding. This has already been illustrated in the notes under I-9-6. In respect of the impious and ungodly (Asuras), the Lord is fast and furious and is in no mood to forgive them, while, at the same time, He swears by His devotees, that they are above mistakes and even if they commit mistakes, according to others, He takes them all in good light, saying that they have done well. The climate, with its components of heat and cold, is also controlled by the Lord. Look at the Saints who see heat in cold when the Lord does not commune with them and cold in heat when in His [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions"). In fact, there is nothing in the Lord’s Universe, which is not worthy of love, so far as Saints are concerned, in view of their universal outlook, making them see God everywhere. Two devotees, by name, Cēṉāpati tācar and Nallār travelled together to the Holy hill of [Tirupati](/definition/tirupati#vaishnavism "show Tirupati definitions"). On the way, Tācar beat the bushes with a stick to clear the way. This brought forth a sharp rebuke from Nallār who asked: “Comrade, why do you punish God’s bush which has not stood in the way of your desires (wealth and lust)?”


