+++
title = "692 Introduction to Section 6.4"

+++
In the last decad of the last centum, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") wished to sustain himself by contemplating the Lord’s wondrous deeds during His [Avatāras](/definition/avatara#vaishnavism "show Avatāras definitions") but literally broke down, overwhelmed by emotion. It was with deep sorrow, born of frustration, he then gave vent to his inability to steady himself and recount the Lord’s deeds, mighty and miraculous. But the picture which has now emerged, is vastly different, the erstwhile emotional break-down and exhaustion yielding place to exhilaration. In every song, the first two [lines](/definition/line#history "show lines definitions"), (as in the original text), recount the Lord's glorious deeds and activities while the next two lines bespeak the Āḻvār’s extraordinary joy, resulting from such recital *cum* contemplation. In dire contrast to the appalling sense of worthlessness, betrayed by him quite often in the earlier songs, the Āḻvār now concludes each song by showering on himself praises like, “there is none equal to me in all the land”, “there is none above me” etc. These do not. however, smack of bravado or hauteur, being the expressions of an ecstatic mind dissolved in God-love, by-no-means comparable to the utterances of those who are in their normal senses, dominated by egoistic compulsions.

In this decad, the Āḻvār confines himself exclusively to Kṛṣṇāvatāra. Stray references, here and there, to other Avatāras, such as the Lord spanning all the worlds as Trivikram, have also an ultimate bearing on Kṛṣṇāvatāra only. c.f. [Periyāḻvār](/definition/periyalvar#vaishnavism "show Periyāḻvār definitions") Tirumoḻi where [Queen](/definition/queen#history "show Queen definitions") Yaśodhā beckons Baby [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") as “Come. Come, oh, Vāmaṉa Nampī! Come, my darling!”


