+++
title = "702 Pasuram 6.4.10"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

மண்மிசைப் பெரும் பாரம் நீங்க ஓர் பாரத மா பெரும் போர்  
பண்ணி, மாயங்கள் செய்து, சேனையைப் பாழ்பட நூற்றிட்டுப் போய்,  
விண்மிசைத் தன தாமமேபுக மேவிய சோதிதன்தாள்,  
நண்ணி நான் வணங்கப்பெற்றேன் எனக்கு ஆர்பிறர் நாயகரே?

maṇmicaip perum pāram nīṅka ōr [pārata](/definition/parata#history "show pārata definitions") mā perum pōr  
[paṇṇi](/definition/paṇṇi#history "show paṇṇi definitions"), māyaṅkaḷ ceytu, cēṉaiyaip pāḻpaṭa nūṟṟiṭṭup pōy,  
viṇmicait taṉa tāmamēpuka mēviya cōtitaṉtāḷ,  
naṇṇi nāṉ vaṇaṅkappeṟṟēṉ eṉakku ārpiṟar nāyakarē?

**English translation of verse 6.4.10:**

There's none to order me about, blest that I am to approach  
And adore the feet of my resplendent Lord Who rid the Earth  
Of its unwholesome burden, [thro](/definition/thro#history "show thro definitions")’ the great war of [Mahā](/definition/maha#history "show Mahā definitions")-Bhāratha  
And its wondrous strategy, with the resolve firm to rout  
The armies, one and all, and did later His Celestium reach.

#### Note

The inhabitants of the Earth having turned out to be unholy and selfish pleasure-seekers, Mother Earth couldn’t carry the unwholesome burden. Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") is said to have incarnated, to rid the Earth of this unwholesome burden and the great War of [Mahābhārata](/definition/mahabharata#vaishnavism "show Mahābhārata definitions") came in handy for this purpose, the number of survivors on both sides being so sparse that they could easily be counted on one’s finger tips. Lord Kṛṣṇa controlled the military strategy, unique in several respects, at every turn and led the [Pāṇḍavas](/definition/pandava#vaishnavism "show Pāṇḍavas definitions") to a formal victory. After His hectic deeds, down below, Śrī Kṛṣṇa went back to the Celestium. The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") exults with chuckling [pride](/definition/pride#history "show pride definitions"), in this song, that he could enjoy the manner of the Lord’s descent into this dismal abode of dirt and devilry and His safe return to the Celestium, at the end of His breath-taking activities over here. It is said that, at the happy conclusion of the ten-day festival (Brahmotsava) of Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions"), in [Śrīraṅgam](/definition/shrirangam#vaishnavism "show Śrīraṅgam definitions"), two Savants, by name, Mutaliyāṇṭāṉ and Empār, prostrated before each other and got locked up, in an embrace, in grateful acknowledgement of the safe conclusion of the festival of the Lord, of an extremely delicate Form and that too, in the midst of crores of persons, selfish and egoistic. Nañcīyar, who happened to watch the said rapport between those two God-lovers, passed on the information to others and it has thus been handed down to posterity.


