+++
title = "750 Pasuram 6.8.6"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

என் மின்னு நூல் மார்வன் என் கரும் பெருமான் என் கண்ணன்,  
தன் மன்னு நீள் கழல்மேல் தண் துழாய் நமக்கு அன்றி நல்கான்,  
கல்மின்கள் என்று உம்மையான் கற்பியாவைத்த மாற்றம்சொல்லி,  
செல்மின்கள் தீவினையேன் வளர்த்த சிறு பூவைகளே!

eṉ miṉṉu nūl mārvaṉ eṉ karum perumāṉ eṉ kaṇṇaṉ,  
taṉ maṉṉu nīḷ kaḻalmēl taṇ tuḻāy namakku aṉṟi nalkāṉ,  
kalmiṉkaḷ eṉṟu ummaiyāṉ kaṟpiyāvaitta māṟṟamcolli,  
celmiṉkaḷ tīviṉaiyēṉ vaḷartta ciṟu pūvaikaḷē!

**English translation of verse 6.8.6:**

Ye, little Pūvai [birds](/definition/bird#history "show birds definitions"), by this feli sinner reared,  
Go unto my dark-hued Kaṇṇaṉ with shining sacred thread  
On His winsome chest which unto me He once gave,  
Sweet and docile, He will to none but us give  
The cool tuḷaci, [decorating](/definition/decorating#history "show decorating definitions") His feet long; unto Him recite  
The hymns I have taught, remembering them quite *in tact*.

#### Notes

\(i\) The little Pūvai birds, commissioned by the Nāyakī to carry her message to the Supreme Lord, were naturally diffident about getting the Lord’s attention. The Nāyakī, therefore, enthuses them by saying that the Lord, who had enticed her by His sweet decorations, exquisite Form and amazing simplicity, would surely give unto His devotees, the tuḷaci worn on His feet. As a matter of fact, the sacred basil is worn by the Lord on His shoulders and chest, crown and feet and yet, the devotees specially long for the tuḷaci, worn on the Lord’s lovely feet, their safe haven. The Lord, who completely identified Himself with His devotees, would give the tuḷaci on His feet to none but them.

\(ii\) *This fell Sinner*: The Nāyakī says this, in her state of separation from the Lord, rather feels vexed at that she has to take work from her pets, instead of fondling them in the sweet [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions") of her Lord.

\(iii\) Our great preceptors have taught the ‘[Mantra](/definition/mantra#vaishnavism "show Mantra definitions") [Ratna](/definition/ratna#history "show Ratna definitions")’ (Dvayam) to one and all, without distinction of big and small. Likewise, the Nāyakī has taught even these little birds the truth about the Lord, how He would surely yield the tuḷaci from His feet to the aspiring devotees and that one of such great compassion could ill-afford to be away from the Nāyakī.

\(iv\) The disciples, who stood reverently at the bed-side of Saint Aruḷāḷapperumāḷ Emperumāṉār towards the fag end of his stay in this abode, found that the Saint was exercising his mind over some thing. On enquiry, they elicited, that he was meditating on how a simple [bird](/definition/bird#history "show bird definitions") (dove) caused grief to Lord [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") and literally bled His heart. [Vibhīṣaṇa](/definition/vibhishana#vaishnavism "show Vibhīṣaṇa definitions")’s admission to [Śrī Rāma](/definition/shrirama#history "show Śrī Rāma definitions")’s camp was hotly debated, down below, while the supplicant was anxiously poised in mid-air, having entrusted himself to His keeping. The Lord was, however, annoyed over the delay in responding to the destitute’s call, caused by such a debate and He affirmed that whosoever sought refuge in Him, be he a friend or foe, was entitled to His protection without demur. Declaring this creed, the Lord also cited the episode which won for a mere dove, deathless praise. Overcoming [fear](/definition/fear#history "show fear definitions") and hatred, the [male](/definition/male#history "show male definitions") dove welcomed the slayer of his mate and fed, on his own flesh, the weary fowler. Verily, this episode should have [wounded](/definition/wounded#history "show wounded definitions") the Lord’s heart sorely, when eventually He slew [Rāvaṇa](/definition/ravana#vaishnavism "show Rāvaṇa definitions"), who had kept [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") in captivity. Nampiḷḷai used to give out the full import of this episode, thus: “Once we confide in the Lord and entrust ourselves to His keeping, as Vibhīṣaṇa did, this simple gesture carries us on to the very acme of spiritual eminence. After our surrender unto God, as the Sole Refuge, He puts through the process of [salvation](/definition/salvation#history "show salvation definitions") and such is His glory, perfection and grace on which we have but to implicitly rely. We don’t have to bend even a blade of grass for our salvation”.


