+++
title = "786 Pasuram 7.1.1"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

உள் நிலாவிய ஐவரால் குமைதீற்றி என்னை உன் பாதபங்கயம்,  
நண்ணிலாவகையே நலிவான் இன்னும் எண்ணுகின்றாய்,  
எண் இலாப் பெறுமாயனே! இமையோர்கள் ஏத்தும் உலகம் மூன்று உடை,  
அண்ணலே! அமுதே! அப்பனே! என்னை ஆள்வானே! (2)

uḷ nilāviya aivarāl kumaitīṟṟi eṉṉai uṉ pātapaṅkayam,  
naṇṇilāvakaiyē nalivāṉ iṉṉum eṇṇukiṉṟāy,  
eṇ ilāp peṟumāyaṉē! imaiyōrkaḷ ēttum ulakam mūṉṟu uṭai,  
aṇṇalē! amutē! appaṉē! eṉṉai āḷvāṉē! (2)

**English translation of verse 7.1.1:**

Oh, my nectarean Lord, Benefactor great, adored by Celestials,  
[Māyā](/definition/maya#vaishnavism "show Māyā definitions") (Matter) of dimensions unlimited You have at Your disposal,  
My Sire, Master of all the worlds, do You intend this vassal  
To be tormented by the senses five within, still,  
So that I attain not Your lotus feet lovely?

#### Notes

\(i\) The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") questions the propriety of his being made a [prey](/definition/prey#history "show prey definitions") to the senses haunting him from within, by being kept still in this body by the Lord. Unlike the external enemies who are quite visible and inflict injuries through [weapons](/definition/weapon#history "show weapons definitions") etc., the five senses, constituting the hidden enemies, [torment](/definition/torment#history "show torment definitions") the individual souls in ever so many ways, a very pathetic and intolerable situation indeed. But then, why should the Āḻvār blame the Lord for this?

\(ii\) Of the numerous names borne by the Lord, ‘[Hṛṣīkeśa](/definition/hrishikesha#vaishnavism "show Hṛṣīkeśa definitions")’ is one; He is the Controller of the senses (Hṛṣīkam), Ṛṣi Udaṅka approached Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") and queried him thus: “Both [kurus](/definition/kuru#vaishnavism "show kurus definitions") and [Pāṇḍus](/definition/pandu#vaishnavism "show Pāṇḍus definitions") are equal to Thee, oh, Lord, and yet, you have caused the destruction of the former while the treatment of the latter has been quite the opposite. How can you be partial?” Lord Kṛṣṇa adduced many a reason for His preference for one [party](/definition/party#history "show party definitions") as against the other and ended by pointing out to the sage that [Duryodhana](/definition/duryodhana#vaishnavism "show Duryodhana definitions") and his party were found obstinately averse to all righteousness, despite His indefatigable efforts to turn them from their evil ways, the Kurus had a perversity of will which would not listen to any persuasion and so on. The Ṛṣi, however, coolly retaliated, “But, my Lord, You could certainly have predisposed them also for righteousness”.

\(iii\) The Āḻvār is indeed frightfully agitated as to why he should be kept in this body, exposed to the vagaries of the unruly senses, even after his taking refuge at the feet of the Lord. A learned dissertation on the why and wherefore of this posture can be found in ‘Śrīvacana Bhūṣaṇam’ where the illustrious Piḷḷailōkācārya has admirably elucidated, as follows:

The ‘Prapanna’, that is, a person who has surrendered himself to the loving grace and protection of the Lord, passes time in this world, between revelling in the glory of God and His devotees and contemplation of his own short-comings. Contemplation of his short-comings incites [fear](/definition/fear#history "show fear definitions") of the dreadful possibility of prolongation of the cycle of [births](/definition/birth#history "show births definitions") and rebirths but the antidote for this lies in recounting the Lord’s auspicious qualities of love, mercy, etc., which at once dispels such [fears](/definition/fear#history "show fears definitions"). If, on the other hand, he thought in terms of his own spiritual equipment and advancement as sure hopes for his [salvation](/definition/salvation#history "show salvation definitions") and tried thereby to get over the fear in question, it would indeed be a case of virtue defeating itself, a self-defeating virtue clouded by conceit. Even as Saint [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions") has complained in this song, Saint Tirumaṅkai Āḻvār feels terribly panicky about the forbidding prospect of the Lord still [condemning](/definition/condemning#history "show condemning definitions") him to [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions") inside the mother’s womb and, on this [account](/definition/account#history "show account definitions"), feels insecure like the [tree](/definition/tree#history "show tree definitions") standing on the fringe of a river, which could be uprooted any moment by floods. This fear and the resultant reproach from these [Āḻvārs](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvārs definitions"), however, stem from their intimate bonds with the Lord Whom they regard as their Sole Sustainer. This is just like the child playing in the [streets](/definition/street#history "show streets definitions"), sustaining an injury at play, rushing home, [crying](/definition/crying#history "show crying definitions") and [beating](/definition/beating#history "show beating definitions") the mother for her apparent slackness in preventing the injury. Apart from their eternal and inviolable bond of relationship, the Lord is Omnipotent and could easily wipe off the malaise of His subjects. And now, considering the relationship between the creatures and the Creator as between children and Mother, it would appear as if God stands responsible for everything that befalls the creatures. For instance, if a child fell into a well, they would hold the mother as blameworthy for her failure to keep a watchful eye on the child and prevent the occurrence. Had she not permitted the child to walk up to the edge of the well, the child would not have fallen into the well.

If non-removal of the child from the vicinity of the well could be construed as permission granted for its stay there, it might as well be argued that it is the same permissive attitude of the Lord that is responsible for the individual straying away from the Lord and getting bogged down in the difficult terrain of’ [Saṃsāra](/definition/samsara#history "show Saṃsāra definitions") Well, this is not the case. Even as the consent of the Individual to submit himself to the Lord’s protection is not the cause of the benevolent protection eventually extended by the Lord and it is His own redemptive grace that matters, permission granted by the Lord for the individual’s stay in ‘Saṃsāra’ is not responsible for the latter’s downward trend. Actually, it is the Lord’s command that the subjects should conform to the dictates of the [Śāstras](/definition/shastra#vaishnavism "show Śāstras definitions") and work their way up to Him. It is, therefore, but natural that He expects the subjects to show due regard to the Śāstraic decree and injunctions and develop love for Him. In the final analysis however, it turns out that the subjects get stranded over here, [enjoying](/definition/enjoying#history "show enjoying definitions") the fruits of their own ‘[Karma](/definition/karma#vaishnavism "show Karma definitions")’ and it is only the Lord’s spontaneous grace that pulls them out of the morass.

\(iv\) As stated in para 3, above, recounting the Lord’s auspicious qualities of love, mercy etc. dispels one’s fears. It is worth noting that in every song in this decad the Āḻvār cries forth his fears in the first two [lines](/definition/line#history "show lines definitions") (*as per original text*), while he dwells upon the Lord’s glory and grandeur in the next two lines. As Piḷḷai Tirunarayūr Aṟaiyar put it, the first two lines of each song in this decad are like the outbursts of a child right from the mouth of a [tiger](/definition/tiger#history "show tiger definitions") facing the Mother in front (In the English rendering of the songs the position is, however, reversed).


