+++
title = "787 Pasuram 7.1.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

என்னை ஆளும் வன் கோ ஓர் ஐந்து இவை பெய்து இராப்பகல் மோதுவித்திட்டு,  
உன்னை நான் அணுகாவகை செய்து போதிகண்டாய்,  
கன்னலே! அமுதே! கார் முகில் வண்ணனே! கடல் ஞாலம் காக்கின்ற  
மின்னு நேமியினாய்! வினையேனுடை வேதியனே!

eṉṉai āḷum vaṉ kō ōr aintu ivai peytu irāppakal mōtuvittiṭṭu,  
uṉṉai nāṉ aṇukāvakai ceytu pōtikaṇṭāy,  
kaṉṉalē! amutē! kār mukil vaṇṇaṉē! kaṭal ñālam kākkiṉṟa  
miṉṉu nēmiyiṉāy! viṉaiyēṉuṭai vētiyaṉē!

**English translation of verse 7.1.2:**

My most delicious Nectar, Oh, [cloud](/definition/cloud#history "show cloud definitions")-hued Lord, You wield  
The radiant discus which does the ocean-bound worlds shield  
Well beyond this sinner’s reach, You are by [Vedas](/definition/veda#vaishnavism "show Vedas definitions") comprehended,  
Me You have consigned to the senses five and their cruel sway  
Day and night, and thus from You have kept me away.

**Notes:**

\(i\) *[Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") to the Lord*: My Lord, why should You at all endow me with the refractory senses, which upset the natural order of things and hold me in their cruel grip, day and night? You are so far away that I can’t even cry out my woes to you. The natural order of things would be: The individual soul is the vassal of the Lord, the mind is subordinate to the individual and the senses are under the immediate control of the mind, the overall control of the mind and the senses vesting in the Individual. But what is the position now? It is the bottom-most member of the hierarchy that keeps the top-most under its heels!

\(ii\) *Lord to the Āḻvār*: Oh, Āḻvār, Why do you despise these ancillaries which can be harnessed to the best possible use? The ears can listen to discourses on Me, the tongue can sing My praise, the eyes can behold Me and My devotees, the [nostrils](/definition/nostril#history "show nostrils definitions") can enjoy the sweet odour of the sacred basil (tuḻaci) offered to Me and the body can get locked in My sweet embrace.

\(iii\) *Āḻvār to the Lord*: If the senses can subserve me in the manner outlined by You, I would certainly love them most. But, it is the other way round and they only distract me from my single-minded devotion unto You and hence my complaint about my continued stay in this explosive setting. It is like Your presenting the fakedeer before [Sītā](/definition/sita#vaishnavism "show Sītā definitions") and putting her into the hands of the seven hundred odd Rākṣasīs in [Laṅkā](/definition/lanka#vaishnavism "show Laṅkā definitions"), who teased and tormented her.

\(iv\) *Lord to the Āḻvār*: In the untoward contingency of the senses overpowering you, better let me know so that I do apply the necessary remedies.

\(v\) *Āḻvār to the Lord*: But then, my Lord, You are quite out of hand and I am not in a position to lodge my complaint. Had You not unravelled unto me Your glorious Form, I would jolly well like to be in the [company](/definition/company#history "show company definitions") of the senses unmindful of You. But now, I just dread every moment the mischief of the senses which might lead me astray. And You keep Yourself away, out of sight, as if You have to be comprehended only through the Vedas instead of my [enjoying](/definition/enjoying#history "show enjoying definitions") You through direct perception!


