+++
title = "807 Pasuram 7.2.9"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

என் திருமகள் சேர்மார்வனே! என்னும் என்னுடை ஆவியே! என்னும்,  
நின்திரு எயிற்றால் இடந்து நீ கொண்ட நிலமகள் கேள்வனே! என்னும்,  
அன்றுஉருஏழும் தழுவி நீ கொண்ட ஆய்மகள் அன்பனே! என்னும்,  
தென் திருவரங்கம் கோயில்கொண்டானே! தெளிகிலேன் முடிவு இவள்தனக்கே. (2)

eṉ tirumakaḷ cērmārvaṉē! eṉṉum eṉṉuṭai āviyē! eṉṉum,  
niṉtiru eyiṟṟāl iṭantu nī koṇṭa nilamakaḷ kēḷvaṉē! eṉṉum,  
aṉṟuuruēḻum taḻuvi nī koṇṭa āymakaḷ aṉpaṉē! eṉṉum,  
teṉ tiruvaraṅkam kōyilkoṇṭāṉē! teḷikilēṉ muṭivu ivaḷtaṉakkē. (2)

**English translation of verse 7.2.9:**

Oh, Lord in Teṉtiruvaraṅkam enshrined, ‘tisn’t unto me clear  
What indeed will be the end of this lady’s inordinate longing;  
Calls she, “Oh, my Soul, bearing on Your chest Tirumakaḷ, my Mother,”  
“Oh Spouse of Dame Earth whom You lifted on Your bent tooth long,”  
“Oh, dear One unto the shepherd girl whom you once took over,  
Slaying the unruly [bulls](/definition/bull#history "show bulls definitions") seven with the voice of thunder,”

**Notes:**

\(i\) The Nāyakī wonders how she could suffer inspite of Tirumakaḷ ([Mahālakṣmī](/definition/mahalakshmi#vaishnavism "show Mahālakṣmī definitions")), the unfailing Intercessor between the Lord and His subjects being ever present on His winsome chest. The Lord is the soul of all souls and what is more, the Mother is always in conjunction with Him; here then is a grand setting, the soul of our soul, the super-soul being a mighty combination, highly conducive to our well-being. When Nañcīyar spelt out in one breath, without a break, the first [line](/definition/line#history "show line definitions") of this song as in the original text, (third line here), so as to yield this meaning, his preceptor, [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") Bhaṭṭar, the high Priest of Lord [Raṅganātha](/definition/ranganatha#vaishnavism "show Raṅganātha definitions"), was taking [food](/definition/food#history "show food definitions") and [listening](/definition/listening#history "show listening definitions") to the marvellous recital by the inspired Saint. Thrilled by this manner of chanting, with the new light thrown on the text, Bhaṭṭārya stopped eating and reclined in the easy chair, wrapt in rapturous [meditation](/definition/meditation#history "show meditation definitions").

This way of addressing God is indeed very fascinating. Tradition has it that the famous Anantāḷvān named his daughter as “My Mother, [Lakṣmī](/definition/lakshmi#vaishnavism "show Lakṣmī definitions")” (En Tirumakaḷ) Śrī Parāśara Bhaṭṭar, reputed to be no less than the son of Lord, please consider me as but a part of the bridal outfit of Your consort, Mahālakṣmī, my Mother and also grant that I may love You as the Beloved of my Mother-(Aḷakiya Maṇavāḷa or Lovely Spouse)”.

\(ii\) The Lord can be dear to Mother Earth only if He could take care of her favourities like the Nāyakī.

\(iii\) “Having slain the seven unruly bulls with thunderous voice, for winning the hand of Goddess Nīḷā, incarnated as Nappiṉṉai, the shepherdess, Oh, Lord, you are now relaxing in Tiruvaraṅkam on your [serpent](/definition/serpent#history "show serpent definitions")-bed. How indeed do you intend to put an end to my daughter’s afflictions?”, asks the gnostic mother of Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī.


