+++
title = "840 Pasuram 7.5.3"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

கேட்பார்கள் கேசவன் கீர்த்திஅல்லால் மற்றும் கேட்பரோ,  
கேட்பார் செவிசுடு கீழ்மை வசைவுகளே வையும்,  
சேண்பால் பழம்பகைவன் சிசு பாலன், திருவடி  
தாள்பால் அடைந்த தன்மை அறிவாரை அறிந்துமே?

kēṭpārkaḷ kēcavaṉ kīrttiallāl maṟṟum kēṭparō,  
kēṭpār cevicuṭu kīḻmai vacaivukaḷē vaiyum,  
cēṇpāl paḻampakaivaṉ cicu pālaṉ, tiruvaṭi  
tāḷpāl aṭainta taṉmai aṟivārai aṟintumē?

**English translation of verse 7.5.3:**

Will those that yearn to listen to things great  
Listen to aught but the glory of Kēcavaṉ from those  
That know how He got restored unto His feet  
Even [Śiśupāla](/definition/shishupala#vaishnavism "show Śiśupāla definitions"), the age-long enemy inveterate, who railed abuses  
On Him, so vile and mean, that even those who longed  
To hear Him maligned found them unsavoury and blistering?

**Notes:**

What is there to hear but the glory of the magnanimous Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") ([Keśava](/definition/kesava#vaishnavism "show Keśava definitions")) who salved even the malicious Śiśupāla, His sworn enemy, whose sole occupation it was to vituperate Him in the meanest terms, from those who have already got to know about it? Even while abusing, Śiśupāla chose Lord Kṛṣṇa as his target, keeping Him in view and mentioning His name all the time, though in bad light. The felon did so not only in one [birth](/definition/birth#history "show birth definitions") but in every one of his many [births](/definition/birth#history "show births definitions"). And what about the intensity of his hatred for the Lord? Even those, who longed to hear the Lord maligned and hired out persons for this job, could not stand the blistering invectives of Śiśupāla. The merciful Lord perhaps took this as yet another form of recital of His names, ‘[Nāma Saṅkīrtana](/definition/namasankirtana#vaishnavism "show Nāma Saṅkīrtana definitions")’ and salved the age-long offender! So then, even enmity to God is preferred to friendship with Satan, seeing that Śiśupāla could obtain [salvation](/definition/salvation#history "show salvation definitions"), although he was a staunch hater of Lord Kṛṣṇa, reciting His holy names by way of malicious indictment, though coming face to face with His [bejewelled](/definition/bejewelled#history "show bejewelled definitions") Person, *the great fortune of a great enemy*! And what to say of the infiniteness of His grace, much beyond the competence of we mortals to conjecture! The Lord’s grace is all the more pronounced, seeing that Śiśupāla had, on his part, not even the remotest wish (arthitva) for salvation and it is incredible that he could ever attain it.


