+++
title = "850 Introduction to Section 7.6"

+++
In the last decad, the Saint’s address to the world is implicit, although the third person has been used throughout, instead of the second. No [doubt](/definition/doubt#history "show doubt definitions"), the worldlings kept aloof from God because of their exclusive absorption in sensual pleasures, totally shorn of God-love. But then, here is the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") with an enormous yearning for the Lord, of unimaginable depth and yet, he has not been able to experience the bliss of lasting communion with Him. We have of course seen him ravished by internal joy, during those delirious moments of union with the Lord (mental vision), overflowing its contents and finding expression through hymns adoring Him and [extolling](/definition/extolling#history "show extolling definitions") His great glory. In the contrary state of desertion by the Lord, he would lament loudly as in this decad, melting the stony hearts of even the ungodly. Śrī Nampiḷḷai puts it that the Āḻvār’s lamentations were so loudly vociferous that it looked as if a vast ocean rose on its feet and roared with all its might; surely it cannot but dislodge the Lord from His [seat](/definition/seat#history "show seat definitions") in the high [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") and compel Him to come down to the Āḻvār and oblige him with His sweet presence.

[Ācārya](/definition/acarya#vaishnavism "show Ācārya definitions") Ammaṅki Ammal would exclaim:

> “We can only sing and listen to this decad sung by others. We are, > however, least competent to gauge and express, in concrete > [language](/definition/language#history "show language definitions"), > the unfathomable depth of the Āḻvār’s languishment, finding utterance > in such soul-stirring diction”.


