+++
title = "891 Pasuram 7.9.2"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

என்சொல்லி நிற்பன் என் இன் உயிர் இன்று ஒன்றாய்,  
என்சொல்லால் யான்சொன்ன இன்கவி என்பித்து,  
தன்சொல்லால் தான்தன்னைக் கீர்த்தித்த மாயன், என்  
முன்சொல்லும் மூவுருவாம் முதல்வனே.

eṉcolli niṟpaṉ eṉ iṉ uyir iṉṟu oṉṟāy,  
eṉcollāl yāṉcoṉṉa iṉkavi eṉpittu,  
taṉcollāl tāṉtaṉṉaik kīrttitta māyaṉ, eṉ  
muṉcollum mūvuruvām mutalvaṉē.

**English translation of verse 7.9.2:**

How shall I my gratitude express unto the Primate,  
Who as Trinity functions and Who would from within me dictate  
And sing His glory in words, this mean vassal would repeat,  
Bring out this hymnal and, as its author, make me out?

**Notes:**

The [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") is indeed at a loss to find words to express the boundless grace of the Lord, who weaned him away from his waywardness and chose him as His mouthpiece to repeat the words dictated by Him and then glorified him as the great author of this grand hymnal. This is just like His discharging the cosmic functions through [Brahmā](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahmā definitions"), [Rudra](/definition/rudra#vaishnavism "show Rudra definitions"), [Indra](/definition/indra#vaishnavism "show Indra definitions") and the whole hierarchy, standing within them all as their Internal Controller. The Āḻvār, it will thus be seen, doos not own authorship of the hymnals sung by him and makes it out as the Lord’s own utterances through the [medium](/definition/medium#history "show medium definitions") of His beloved Saints. Even as the minor deities are made by Him to appear as Creator of the worlds, Destroyer of [Tripura](/definition/tripura#vaishnavism "show Tripura definitions") the (three [flying](/definition/flying#history "show flying definitions") citadels) and so on, in respect of acts actually performed by the Lord as their Internal Controller, He makes it appear that the Āḻvār is the author of this hymnal. Had the Lord uttered this hymnal directly, it would be just another piece like His Gitā and be far from the juicy thing it is, extremely delectable, coming as it does from the month of the Saint. Apart from the fact that the Lord attaches more importance to the utterances of His devotees than to His own, [Nampi](/definition/nampi#history "show Nampi definitions") Tiruvaḻuti [Nāṭu](/definition/natu#history "show Nāṭu definitions") Tācar would illustrate the [relative](/definition/relative#history "show relative definitions") importance of the utterances of the Lord and the Āḻvār and their impact on an assembly of learned men, as follows: When a person, reciting [Ślokas](/definition/sloka#vaishnavism "show Ślokas definitions") from [Bhagavad Gītā](/definition/bhagavad-gita#vaishnavism "show Bhagavad Gītā definitions") went there a-begging, they just dismissed him with a handful of rice, without allowing him a place in their midst. On the other hand, when an itinerant came across, warbling the sweet songs of [Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions"), the whole town and the Deity enshrined there, as well, rose to greet him, escorted him to places assigned by them with competitive exuberance and treated him with the utmost respect and hospitality.


