+++
title = "895 Pasuram 7.9.6"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

இன் கவி பாடும் பரம் கவிகளால்,  
தன் கவி தான் தன்னைப் பாடுவியாது இன்று  
நன்கு வந்து என்னுடன் ஆக்கி என்னால் தன்னை,  
வன் கவி பாடும் என் வைகுந்த நாதனே.

iṉ [kavi](/definition/kavi#vaishnavism "show kavi definitions") pāṭum param kavikaḷāl,  
taṉ kavi tāṉ taṉṉaip pāṭuviyātu iṉṟu  
naṉku vantu eṉṉuṭaṉ ākki eṉṉāl taṉṉai,  
vaṉ kavi pāṭum eṉ vaikunta nātaṉē.

**English translation of verse 7.9.6:**

Oh, how gracious it is of the Lord of celestials  
To choose me as His instrument and shed on me His grace  
To get His glory by me sung although He could very well  
Press (the first three [Āḻvārs](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvārs definitions")), the sweet-[singing](/definition/singing#history "show singing definitions") poets supreme, into service!

**Note**

There have indeed been many sweet-singing poets combining [poetic](/definition/poetry#history "show poetic definitions") skill and piety, like [Vyāsa](/definition/vyasa#vaishnavism "show Vyāsa definitions"), [Parāśara](/definition/parashara#history "show Parāśara definitions") and [Vālmīki](/definition/valmiki#vaishnavism "show Vālmīki definitions"), the great [Sanskrit](/definition/sanskrit#history "show Sanskrit definitions") poets and the first three Āḻvārs and ‘Tirumaḷicai [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions")’ who have many sweet, soul-stirring hymns in Tamil to their credit. The Lord could have got the ‘[Tiruvāymoḻi](/definition/tiruvaymoli#vaishnavism "show Tiruvāymoḻi definitions")’ also sung by these super-eminent poets and yet He deigned to shed His special grace on [Nammāḻvār](/definition/nammalvar#vaishnavism "show Nammāḻvār definitions") who came long after, and got these songs of His choice mouthed by him. The Lord revealed unto the Āḻvār His grandeur as the Lord of [Heavens](/definition/heaven#history "show Heavens definitions") so that the latter could sing His glory. It was only when He heard His praise sung by the Āḻvār, He could feel His position as the Heavenly Lord, stable. Actually, the [Heaven](/definition/heaven#history "show Heaven definitions") is the eternal land of unquestionable stability, well beyond the mischief of the [deluge](/definition/deluge#history "show deluge definitions"), when all the other worlds enter the Lord’s stomach for sheer survival. And yet, the Lord is inclined to treat His transcendent glory in Heaven, on a par with the fame attained by Him through the Āḻvār’s laudation.


