+++
title = "935 Pasuram 8.2.5"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

ஆழிவலவனை ஆதரிப்பும் ஆங்குஅவன் நம்மில் வரவும் எல்லாம்  
தோழியர்காள்! நம்உடையமேதான்? சொல்லுவதோ இங்கு அரியதுதான்  
ஊழிதோறுஊழி ஒருவனாக நன்குஉணர்வார்க்கும் உணரலாகாச்  
சூழல்உடைய சுடர்கொள்ஆதித் தொல்லைஅம்சோதி நினைக்குங்காலே.

āḻivalavaṉai ātarippum āṅkuavaṉ nammil varavum ellām  
tōḻiyarkāḷ! namuṭaiyamētāṉ? colluvatō iṅku ariyatutāṉ  
ūḻitōṟuūḻi oruvaṉāka naṉkuuṇarvārkkum uṇaralākāc  
cūḻaluṭaiya cuṭarkoḷātit tollaiamcōti niṉaikkuṅkālē.

**English translation of verse 8.2.5:**

Ye, mates, it would hardly be proper to say things harsh  
About the Lord wielding the discus, the Primate of brilliance everlasting,  
Of ultra-mundane origin, of wondrous deeds which the devotees enthral,  
Whose glory even the most knowledgeable can’t fathom and comprehend,  
However much and however long they might try to find;  
’Tis nothing new for devotees to covet Him and for Him to respond.

**Notes:**

\(i\) Trying to convict the Nāyakī out of her own mouth, the mates advise her not to court the Lord and lose all her possessions in the process, as owned by her in the immediately preceding song. Pat comes the admonition from the Nāyakī, warning them against any possible misunderstanding of the Lord’s glory and greatness and dubbing Him as callous, hard-hearted and so on. It was not as if she was the only God-[lover](/definition/lover#history "show lover definitions"), subject to such fluctuations. There have been very many God-[lovers](/definition/lover#history "show lovers definitions") before, who did covet the Lord’s presence and craved, like Parāṅkuśa Nāyakī, for incessant communion with Him and the Lord also graciously responded and mingled with the devout very freely, exhibiting many wonderful traits and deeds.

\(ii\) The statement that intellectual stalwarts too cannot comprehend the Lord, even if they should engage themselves in such pursuit for ages, might seem to come into conflict with the texts, such as, ‘Vedāhametaṃ [Puruṣaṃ](/definition/purusha#vaishnavism "show Puruṣaṃ definitions") [Mahāntaṃ](/definition/mahanta#history "show Mahāntaṃ definitions")’, ‘Aham vedmi Mahātmānaṃ’ etc., which claim to know God. The authority to whom these texts apply is what is called the [Brahma](/definition/brahma#vaishnavism "show Brahma definitions")-[Jñāni](/definition/jnanin#vaishnavism "show Jñāni definitions") or ‘[Tattva](/definition/tattva#vaishnavism "show Tattva definitions") vith’, the knower of [Brahman](/definition/brahman#vaishnavism "show Brahman definitions"), the ultimate Principle or Truth. Well, all that these eminent persons could know is that the Lord cannot be fully comprehended and His ways are inscrutable. For example, the Lord Himself has declared many a time that He would act only when [Mahālakṣmī](/definition/mahalakshmi#vaishnavism "show Mahālakṣmī definitions") plays the recommendatory role, mediating and pleading for the supplicants at the door-step. And yet, He would also say, ‘Nāsou Puruṣakāreṇa nacāpyanyena hetunā, Kevalaṃ svecchāyaivāhaṃ prekṣa kañcit Kathācana’, that is, He could not be coaxed into redeeming His subjects by any means including the mediation of the Divine Mother and that His own will was paramount, in the matter of extending His grace. Again, He has declared, in unambiguous terms His severe displeasure in regard to the transgression of the dictates of the Scriptures, which are but His commands—‘[Śrutis](/definition/shruti#vaishnavism "show Śrutis definitions") Śmṛtir Mamaivajña yasth āmullangya vartate, āgnāccheti Mama dhrohi Madbhaktopi na [vaiṣṇavaḥ](/definition/vaishnava#vaishnavism "show vaiṣṇavaḥ definitions")’. And yet, in Chapter IX-30 of [Bhagavad Gītā](/definition/bhagavad-gita#vaishnavism "show Bhagavad Gītā definitions"), this stern warning would seem to have got totally diluted, when Lord [Kṛṣṇa](/definition/krishna#vaishnavism "show Kṛṣṇa definitions") averred, “apicet [sudurācāraḥ](/definition/suduracara#vaishnavism "show sudurācāraḥ definitions") bhajate Mām [ananya](/definition/ananya#vaishnavism "show ananya definitions") bhāk, Sādhureva samantavyaḥ Samyagvyavasito hi saḥ”, that is, “Even he, who has committed grave breaches of the codes of conduct, appropriate to the different stations in [life](/definition/life#history "show life definitions"), deserves to be placed on a par with a Saint and honoured likewise, if he meditates on Me, with selffess devotion, with no other end in view.” Did not Lord [Rāma](/definition/rama#vaishnavism "show Rāma definitions") wind up the heated debate on [Vibhīṣaṇa](/definition/vibhishana#vaishnavism "show Vibhīṣaṇa definitions")’s admission into His camp, by announcing His great creed of granting asylum to any one, who sought refuge in Him and responding, without fail, to the call of a destitute, be he friendly or a foe in the guise of a friend, and whatever be the magnitude of his sins? How then can anyone, however exalted and sagacious, claim to have known fully, the Lord and His ways? The only exception could, of course, be the chosen few unto whom the Lord has revealed Himself, *in toto*, and imparted crystal-clear knowledge, shorn of all [doubts](/definition/doubt#history "show doubts definitions"), discrepancies and deviations.

\(iii\) The Nāyakī’s hopes are kept alive because the Great One, Who baffles scrutiny and defies description, is also known to be amazingly simple, mixing freely with His ardent devotees. How then can the mates dissuade the Nāyakī from pinning her faith in His condescending love?


