+++
title = "951 Pasuram 8.3.8"

+++
**[Tamil](/definition/tamil#history "show Tamil definitions") text and transliteration:**

என்றே என்னை உன்ஏர்ஆர்கோலத்திருந்து அடிக்கீழ்  
நின்றே ஆட்செய்ய நீகொண்டருள நினைப்பதுதான்  
குன்றுஏழ் பார்ஏழ் சூழ்கடல்ஞாலம் முழுஏழும்  
நின்றே தாவிய நீள்கழல் ஆழித் திருமாலே!

eṉṟē eṉṉai uṉērārkōlattiruntu aṭikkīḻ  
niṉṟē āṭceyya nīkoṇṭaruḷa niṉaippatutāṉ  
kuṉṟuēḻ pārēḻ cūḻkaṭalñālam muḻuēḻum  
niṉṟē tāviya nīḷkaḻal āḻit tirumālē!

**English translation of verse 8.3.8:**

Oh, Tirumāl, wielding the discus, when will You deem me fit  
To get a lift unto your extremely lovely feet  
And serve You firm and steadfast, for ever?  
Merely standing on Your feet tall, you did cover  
The worlds seven, islands seven, mountains seven and the oceans round about.

**Notes:**

Seeing that there is none to plead with the Lord on his behalf, the [Āḻvār](/definition/aḻvar#vaishnavism "show Āḻvār definitions") himself now enquires of the Lord what exactly His intentions are in the matter of taking service from him. The Āḻvār sees in front of him the Lord, full of love, ready to concede his wish and yet, the Āḻvār can brook no further delay. He impresses upon the Lord his rapturous love unto His ornamental feet, so very alluring that He cannot bear being apart from Him, any longer. The Āḻvār longs to render selfless service unto the Lord, with single-minded devotion and with no break, remaining by His side always. The Lord, however, keeps silent and this makes the Āḻvār suspect whether the Lord insists on the necessary attainment in him to warrant such an aspiration. Reference to the Lord measuring all the worlds, setting his feet on all and sundries, is, therefore, significant. Did He not set His feet on one and all, high and low, unsolicited, caring least for their attainments? As a matter of fact, the Āḻvār is bound to serve the Lord, out of gratitude for His condescending to come all the way to Tiruvaṇparicāram. It further behoves him to go the whole hog out to serve the Lord and get Him fully relaxed after His arduous spanning of the worlds, setting His tender feet over hill and dale, full of rubbles and brambles. And yet, the initiative for this should come from the Lord and the Āḻvār is eagerly awaiting the day when He would invite him to do His bidding.


